

--- SAYFA 1 ---
IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127
ScienceDirect
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
2405-8963 Copyright © 2022 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license.
Peer review under responsibility of International Federation of Automatic Control.
10.1016/j.ifacol.2022.09.540
Copyright © 2022 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
1. INTRODUCTION 
The latest stage in today’s industrial revolutions, so-called 
Industry 4.0, continues to bring significant change in 
manufacturing, consumption, and supply processes from an 
economic and environmental perspective (S. Digiesi, Mossa, 
& Rubino, 2015). The new approach consists of machines and 
production systems that do not require manpower and operate 
independently of people (Erboz, 2020). The potential of new 
devices ensures a real-time reaction to changes and quality 
response in satisfying the customer needs of manufacturing 
companies (Azizi et al., 2015). Consistently with the new 
approach, the ‘smart factory’ should be enhanced by 
implementing new additional features providing a flexible and 
adaptive production process. Therefore, to make a factory 
‘smart’, it is needed to implement new data management, share 
and monitor all process information, and minimize 
unnecessary labour and waste of resources (Radziwon, 
Bilberg, Bogers, & Madsen, 2014). 
In this context, the material handling system (MHS) plays a 
crucial role in increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of 
the manufacturing process (Mathew & Sahu, 2018). 
According to Zhang, Lv, & Zhang (2018), material handling 
costs accounted for 20–50% of total manufacturing costs. 
Therefore, developing effective and efficient handling 
strategies has received considerable attention over the last few 
years. This has led to rapid development in MHS design, 
allowing to scale the production and increase the developed 
systems' accuracy and adaptability. A ‘smart’ MHS is 
developed to improve the communication between units in the 
system to create more adaptable control of assembly flow and 
system performance (Azizi et al., 2015). There are many 
approaches to operate in-plant logistics systems (Salvatore 
Digiesi, Mascolo, Mossa, & Mummolo, 2016). One of 
increasing interest, especially for lean production systems with 
small lot sizes, is referred to as a milk-run method 
(Greenwood, Kluska, & Pawlewski, 2017). It allows for 
increasing the frequency of materials delivered, ensuring the 
supply of working stations, and minimizing the materials 
stocked. Based on the milk-run approach, the tugger trains 
have become a popular means of supply in material handling 
intensive production systems (G. Bocewicz, Nielsen, & 
Banaszak, 2019). Generally, they are adopted in supermarkets 
to interlink multiple delivery locations by adopting a transport 
route designed according to the milk-run method (Grzegorz 
Bocewicz, Bozejko, Wójcik, & Banaszak, 2019). Tugger 
trains are loaded and unloaded multiple times along a route 
that connects several working stations into a supply loop. This 
setup ensures the delivery of a variable quantity of materials to 
a given set of working stations. 
On the one hand, the milk-run method ensures an efficiency 
gain in terms of higher transport capacity and reduced labour 
costs. On the other hand, the method requires a complex design 
due to complicated planning and a high number of variables to 
be considered. Nevertheless, the operational benefits provided 
by the milk-run method are unquestionable, especially in the 
automotive sector, where many different materials are 
required, and the area for the material provision (very close to 
the assembly line) is limited. Consistently with the lean 
manufacturing perspective, the milk-run approach reduces the 
cost due to waste from inventory, delivering the material in 
Keywords: Industry 4.0, Smart manufacturing systems, material handling systems, in-plant milk run, 
milk-run routing, vehicle routing problem, time window constraints. 
Abstract: The fourth industrial transformation can create value for companies. It can bring significant 
improvements: those who want to be competitive in the market must implement new methods and tools to 
make plants efficient and productive. Industry 4.0 introduces new paradigms promoting the adoption of 
innovative technologies. In this context, the material handling system plays a crucial role in increasing the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the manufacturing systems. This paper proposes a model based on the 
Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows. The model aims to plan a dynamic routing strategy for 
milk-run to deliver the materials to different working stations, ensuring a materials’ distribution consistent 
with the time slot and minimizing the tugger trains path. A real industrial full case of a worldwide 
automotive company validates the model. The results of the study show benefits under economic (cost 
saving of 18%), environmental (allowed to reduce the distance travelled by tugger trains by around 23% 
for each work shift) and social (organizational development) perspectives. 
* Department of Mechanics, Mathematics and Management,  Polytechnic University of Bari, , Bari, Italy 
(Tel: 0039-080-5963621; e-mail: francesco.facchini@poliba.it, giorgio.mossa@poliba.it)  
**Fincons Group SPA, Bari, Italy 
(e-mail: simona.detullio@finconsgroup.com) 
Francesco Facchini*. Giorgio Mossa*. Simona De Tullio** 
A Milk-run routing and Scheduling model for a Smart Manufacturing 
System  


--- SAYFA 2 ---
	
Francesco Facchini  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127	
1123
time and minimizing, at the same time, the waste in processing, 
avoiding the working stations’ starvation (Alnahhal, Ridwan, 
& Noche, 2014). Therefore, the milk-run routing and 
scheduling problem consists of planning in what time windows 
a batch of specific materials shall be delivered to specific 
working stations (Grzegorz Bocewicz et al., 2021).  
In the general case, the research to identify the optimal 
distribution policy evaluating a set of routes ensuring the 
delivery in a specific time slot can belong to the class of 
Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP). New challenges in particular 
concern the development of models allowing to solve the milk-
run-driven delivery problems under specific constraints are 
under investigation. In practice, these kinds of assumptions on 
a shop floor include a stochastic demand of materials over time 
to be managed through a dynamic plan of routing (developed 
online) to minimize various objectives such as cost, distance, 
or time, adopting I4.0 digital tools. 
Therefore, the paper contributes to the practice and 
methodology by providing a model based on the Vehicle 
Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW). The model 
aims to plan a dynamic routing strategy for milk-run to deliver 
the materials to different working stations, ensuring a 
materials’ distribution consistent with the time slot and 
minimizing the tugger trains path. It was assumed that the 
vehicles are dynamically dispatched from the depot to working 
stations when the materials’ orders are processed.  The main 
contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows: the 
materials will be moved along variable routes at changeable 
time intervals (i); the effectiveness of the model is tested on a 
real full case study of an automotive company (ii); the model 
is implemented in a smart factory adopting I4.0 technologies 
(iii). 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 
is about the literature review of using in-plant milk run and 
previous studies about VRPTW. The model is described and 
tested in an automotive company, in sections 3 and 4, 
respectively. Finally, section 5 highlights the conclusions, 
contributions of the work, limitations, and future research 
suggestions.    
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
The literature discusses two categories of milk-run systems: 
the external and the internal (in-plant) milk-run logistic 
system. The first category (also so-called downstream milk 
runs) includes the transport of parts from the manufacturing 
plant to its customers or vice versa. The second one (also so-
called upstream milk runs) manages the inbound delivery 
network 
to 
the 
manufacturing 
plant 
(Kodippili 
& 
Samarasekera, 2019). Most studies addressing outbound milk-
run systems focus on the routings and schedules of the vehicle 
fleet used. Generally, they adopt mathematical models based 
on heuristic approaches using different metaheuristics, such as 
hybrid ant colony optimization and Tabu search (Grzegorz 
Bocewicz, Nielsen, Jasiulewicz-Kaczmarek, & Banaszak, 
2020). Similar approaches identified to the milk-run systems 
outside the plant are adopted in the milk-run systems inside the 
plant. In this case, the milk-run distribution problem identifies 
the routes and time periods of routes under the constraints such 
as space requirements, number of vehicles, the capacity of 
vehicles, etc. According to Kilic, Durmusoglu, & Baskak 
(2012), route and time are two critical factors for the in-plant 
milk-run problem categorization. Consistent with these 
factors, three classes of the problem can be identified: 
• 
Generalized assignment problem: routes and time 
periods are not known. 
• 
Dedicated assignment problem: the routes are known; 
the problem consists of identifying the time periods.  
• 
Determined time periods assignment problem: time 
periods are known, but the routes are unknown. 
The VRP is the most common approach adopted to identify, 
for each category, the set of routes compatible with the layout 
of the manufacturing plant and the product flow. Different 
constraints lead to a variety of task-specific problems 
depending on the specific characteristics of the problem. In 
this regard, Grzegorz Bocewicz et al. (2021) identify two 
clusters of the problems defined as “relatively simple”, 
including Mix Fleet VRP, Multi-depot VRP, Split-up Delivery 
VRP, Pick-up and Delivery VRP, or VRP with Backhauls. The 
second cluster, identified as “complex problems”, includes 
VRP with multi-trip multi-traffic pick-up and delivery with 
time windows and synchronization, which is a combination of 
variants of the VRP with multiple trips, VRP with a time 
window, and VRP with pick-up delivery. Due to the 
continuing developments of the I4.0 technologies, vehicle 
routing and scheduling problems have received special 
research attention in the last years (Adriano, Montez, Novaes, 
& Wangham, 2020). Most of the research included in the first 
cluster is devoted to the analysis of methods of organizing 
transport processes in ways that minimize the size of the fleet, 
the distance travelled, or the space occupied by a distribution 
system. A mixed-integer linear programming model was 
developed to minimize the fluctuations in the number of milk-
run vehicles between workdays and production facilities. The 
model achieved the target of the study by identifying the 
minimal routes, increasing the loading rate of the milk-run 
vehicles, and avoiding the coincidence of the milk-run at the 
depots (Aksoy & Öztürk, 2016). A model for a milk run pickup 
problem on the distribution of automobile parts with uncertain 
demand and frequency, considering the balance between 
inventory cost and distribution, was developed in 2018. The 
research identifies two best solutions: one leads to increased 
schedule stability, and one minimizes the schedule cost. 
According to the authors, the decision-maker could prefer a 
stable schedule for the sale season and a low-cost schedule for 
the slow season  (Wu, Wang, He, Xuan, & He, 2018). In the 
second cluster, there are ‘complex problems’, which include a 
combination of variants of the VRP with multiple trips, VRP 
with pick-up delivery, and VRPTW, among others. In this 
regard, an empirical analysis for the VRPTW with a 
multigraph representation of the road network was conducted 
by Ticha, Absi, Feillet, & Quilliot (2017). The authors 
developed a simple multigraph representation in this research 
work to significantly improve the VRPTW solution identified 
by adopting a Branch-and-Price algorithm. Similarly, a Multi-
objective VRPTW was solved by adopting a tissue P system 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
1124	
Francesco Facchini  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127
with three cells providing a set of Pareto solutions (instead of 
a single solution) in a short time. In this way, the decision-
maker knows sufficient choices to make the best decision 
(Dong, Zhou, Qi, He, & Zhang, 2018). The research work 
belongs to this cluster of problems; the materials will be 
moved along variable routes at changeable time intervals. 
3. MODEL DEVELOPMENT 
3.1 List of notations 
The following notations are adopted to describe the 
mathematical model developed: 
[i, j]: starting and finishing node,  
n: number of nodes/customers,  
m: number of vehicles of the fleet,  
D: capacity of a vehicle,  
Tk, route: allowed maximum time to complete the route at k-
vehicle, 
dj: demand of the node/customer j to be served,  
tk,j: the time required by k-vehicle to load/unload the materials 
demanded by the customer j, independently of routing 
travelled, 
tk,ij: time needed to k-vehicle to travel from node i to node j,  
cij: distance to travel from node i to node j,  
xk,ij: it is a binary variable,  corresponding to 1 when the k-
vehicle travels from node i to node j, else it is 0, 
xk,i, xk,j: they are binary variables,  corresponding to 1 when the 
k-vehicle is in node i or j, respectively, else it is 0, 
[ai, bi]: represents the interval of the time window, 
sk,i, sk,j: the timestamps when the k-vehicle leaves the nodes i 
and j, respectively. 
3.2 Model formulation 
The mathematical formulation of the VRPTW is based on 
an algorithm for a vehicle routing problem with realistic 
constraints (D. Zhang, Cai, Ye, Si, & Nguyen, 2017). The 
problem defines a binary variable xk,ij  equal to 1 if the k-
vehicle follows the arc of the graph (i, j); otherwise, it is 0. 
Generally, the models to describe transport problems use 
graphs. A general graph is named G = (V, E), where V = {Vi 
Vn} represents a set of nodes which model the customers (or 
cities/locations) and E = {(Vi,Vj): i≤j} represents a set of arcs 
connecting the customers. Overall, the VRPTW is part of the 
class of optimization problems (Dridi, Mailhot, Parizeau, & 
Villeneuve, 2009).  
The VRPTW’s mathematical formulation aims at minimizing 
the total distance of the routes, identified as cost function (eq. 
1), while respecting the framework to perform the delivery on 
time in the time window constraints.   
 
𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶(𝑥𝑥) = 𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀∑
∑
∑
𝑐𝑐!"𝑥𝑥#,!"
%
#&'
(
"&'
(
!&'
 
 
(1)  
 
Further objectives could be considered, for instance, 
minimizing the penalties occurring when some constraints are 
violated, such as the time windows constraints. Another target 
consists of using the minimum number of vehicles in the fleet 
to perform all the deliveries at the minimum cost. In general, 
these two objectives are in contrast; therefore, solving the 
optimization problem can provide the optimal compromise to 
schedule the deliveries.  
 
The function to minimize (eq. 1) is subject to the following 
constraints:  
 
∑
∑
𝑥𝑥#,!" = 1 ∀1 ≤𝑗𝑗≤𝑛𝑛
%
#&'
(
!&'
  
 
 (2) 
 
∑
∑
𝑥𝑥#,!" = 1 ∀1 ≤𝑖𝑖≤𝑛𝑛
%
#&'
(
!&'
  
             (3) 
 
∑
𝑥𝑥#,'" ≤1,
(
"&)
 𝑘𝑘= 1, … , 𝑚𝑚  
 
(4) 
 
∑
𝑥𝑥#,!' ≤1,
(
!&)
 𝑘𝑘= 1, … 𝑚𝑚  
 
(5) 
 
Equations 2 and 3 ensure that each customer is served only one 
time and only by one vehicle. The constraints expressed with 
equations 4 and 5, respectively, show that each vehicle leaves 
the depot and returns to it only once.  
 
∑
𝑥𝑥#,! −∑
𝑥𝑥#," = 0,
(
"&'
 𝑘𝑘= 1, … , 𝑚𝑚;
(
!&'
  
 
(6) 
 
Equation 6 establishes that when a node is visited, it must 
imperatively be left (after materials’ delivery), as the route 
traversed by a vehicle must be continuous.  
 
∑
𝑡𝑡#," ∑
𝑥𝑥#,"
(
"&'
+ ∑
∑
𝑡𝑡#,!"𝑥𝑥#,!" ≤𝑇𝑇#,*+,-., 𝑘𝑘=
(
"&'
(
!&'
(
"&'
1, … , 𝑚𝑚  
(7) 
 
As ensured by equation 7, the total duration of a route must be 
respected. Similarly, each vehicle’s capacity must be 
respected, as shown in equation 8.  
 
∑
𝑑𝑑"=∑
𝑥𝑥#,"
(
"&'
>
(
!&'
≤𝐷𝐷, 𝑘𝑘= 1, … 𝑚𝑚  
 
(8) 
 
𝑥𝑥#,!"=𝑠𝑠#,! + 𝑡𝑡#,!" −𝑠𝑠#,"> ≤0  
 
 
       (9) 
 
𝑎𝑎! ≤𝑠𝑠#,! ≤𝑏𝑏! 
 
 
 
 
       (10) 
 
Finally, equations 9 and 10 ensure that the temporal 
constraints, indicated by the time windows, are respected.  
 
3.3 Model implementation 
The VRPTW has been implemented in the Python language. 
Stated that the model concerns the optimization of the routes 
of tugger trains, each of them composed of three wagons and 
used to deliver pallets to the working stations of a shop floor; 
Figure 1 represents the model’s flow chart. After the parameter 
initialization, the first task of the algorithm consists of reading 
the timestamp corresponding to each wagon of the tugger 
trains, namely the timestamp in which a tugger driver books 
the pallet carried on that specific wagon. The materials were 
loaded on tugger trains’ wagons according to an order assigned 
by an upstream process depending on different aspects (e.g., 
work stations’ positions, materials’ priority, frequency of 
delivery, etc.).    The algorithm clusters the trains by checking 


--- SAYFA 4 ---
	
Francesco Facchini  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127	
1125
if there are identical timestamps among all pallets. Therefore, 
for each train, the time windows of each wagon are calculated. 
For this purpose, it is adopted a matrix of time windows. It is 
updates in real-time by considering when the order has been 
sent and when the tugger driver has booked the corresponding 
pallet. 
 
Figure 1. Flow chart of the VRPTW model 
Consequently, the driver receives the information on a tablet 
and starts the route; instead of deciding autonomously which 
path to take and which pallet to deliver first, the algorithm 
calculates the cost for each arc of the graph according to the 
mathematical formulation introduced in the previous section. 
As a result, checking the respect of the time windows 
iteratively and of the model’s constraints, each pallet is 
delivered at the corresponding working station until all the 
pallets of the train examined are consigned. A GPS device 
constantly tracks all positions of each tugger train; the data are 
sent to the server in real-time to update the timestamp. When 
a delivery is concluded, the working station sends a 
confirmation by RFID sensors. To conclude, the algorithm 
analyses the vehicle routes of all the records and the relative 
time window in which the delivery has been completed. The 
average running time is around 5 seconds per routing 
identification, adopting a MacBook equipped with a 1.6 GHz 
Intel Core i5 CPU and 4 293 GB RAM. 
4. THE REAL-FULL CASE STUDY 
The model presented in this paper has been applied to study a 
real-full case of a worldwide automotive company to optimize 
the internal logistics of one of its shop floors. Although the 
model allows managing multiple vehicles, in the case study 
introduced, the fleet of Material Handling Equipment (MHE) 
includes four tugger trains. 
The issue to be tackled is how to deliver pallets containing 
materials to work on time at the working stations of a welding 
shop, in a process that involves four tugger trains of three 
wagons each, driven by tugger drivers assuming around 400 
trips per work shift. The materials orders are dynamically sent 
to MHS consistent with working station needs. In this case, it 
is not possible to plan the demand of materials since there are 
high variable set-up times for each task and work station; 
moreover, most tasks are manually oriented; therefore, the 
cycle times depend on human performance and task hardness. 
The adopted technology involves the use of one tablet with a 
GPS and Wi-Fi sensor and one RFID transponder for each 
tugger train. Similarly, each working station is linked to a 
server adopting an illuminated push-button with contact 
blocks and one RFID tag. The traditional (no optimized) 
process is based on the human decision making of the drivers, 
who decide the routes to follow for the deliveries. Therefore, 
in the traditional process, the pallets are subject to late and 
early deliveries, which implies that the lead time is irregular, 
as shown in Figure 2.  
 
Figure 2. The lead time of the current process 
According to the constraints of the production line, a pallet 
delivery has been categorised as ‘late delivery’ if more than 25 
minutes have passed from when the order has been sent to 
when the pallet has reached the working station. On the 
contrary, an ‘early delivery’ occurs when the pallet is delivered 
within 15 minutes from its request. Consequently, setting the 
time windows constraints according to this definition of early 
and late deliveries, the VRPTW model was implemented, 
adopting devices available on the market for each tugger train, 
each working station, and IT infrastructure to link and manage 
the data flow. In terms of cost, have been estimated investment 
of around 5 k€ for each tagger train and about 50 k€ for the 
overall 
IT 
infrastructure 
implementation 
(including 
expenditure for hardware and software development); the cost 


--- SAYFA 5 ---
1126	
Francesco Facchini  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127
for each working station can be considered negligible (around 
0.1% of the total cost). 
The results achieved by comparing the traditional process to 
the optimised process, show that by applying the innovative 
model, the number of late and early deliveries significantly 
decreases, and the process’s lead time curve becomes more 
even. The curve of the lead time of the optimised process is 
shown in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. The lead time of the process after the VRPTW algorithm 
implementation 
The VRPTW algorithm led to significant improvement of the 
delivery process, suggesting to tugger drivers the best routes 
to follow and eliminating the problem of the human decision 
making on the shop floor while increasing the number of on 
time deliveries. The comparison between the lead times of the 
process estimated before (Fig. 2) and after (Fig. 3) the 
implementation of the model shows that 11% of late deliveries 
in the current process becomes 8% in the optimized process, 
as indicated in Figure 4, evaluated before and after the model 
implementation.  
 
Figure 4. Number of “early”, “late”, and “on time” deliveries 
before (a) and after (b) the model implementation 
Considering the above, as the tugger drivers know in advance 
when and where they must deliver the pallets, early deliveries 
do not occur in the optimised process, which increases the on-
time deliveries percentage from 57% to 92%. In economic 
terms, there are cost-saving due to re-handling, performance, 
and energy costs. The optimized model reduces to zero the 
early delivery, avoiding the operations due to re-handling of 
materials delivered too early and brought back. Similarly, the 
late deliveries are reduced by 3%, improving the line 
performance and avoiding the process starvation. The route 
optimization impacts the electrical cost required by tugger 
trains charging. A rough estimate led to evaluating an overall 
cost reduction of around 18% compared to traditional process 
costs. From the environmental perspective, the path 
optimization reduced the distance travelled by tugger trains by 
around 23% for each work shift. Therefore, it was estimated 
an energy consumption save of about 0.9 kWh/h per work 
shift.  The optimized process contributed to developing the 
workforce organization. The new process provides a clear 
view of the contribution of each worker to the performance of 
the line, reduces the no value-added tasks, and improves the 
communication between the tugger drivers and other workers.  
6. CONCLUSIONS 
The novelty of this study is that it proposes an integrated 
modelling approach to milk-run system design and operation, 
which considers the relationships linking the production flow 
with the replenishment batches and the time window. 
According to our evaluation, the model implementation led to 
a significant reduction in early and late deliveries (around 
35%) compared to the traditional process. The investment is 
relatively ‘low’ (about 70 k€), and in most cases, the existing 
technologies can be upgraded to interface with the VRPTW 
model. We can summarize the benefits from an economic 
perspective, a cost saving of 18% was estimated comparing the 
cost of the optimized and traditional process. From an 
environmental perspective, the optimized routes reduced the 
distance travelled by tugger trains by around 23%, leading to 
better deployment of energy resources. Organizational 
development is expected due to greater clarity in 
communications and better management of the orders and 
deliveries; this aspect will benefit the workers’ social life 
assessment and well-being. Nevertheless, the model can be 
further improved, ensuring higher reliability of the deliveries 
(8% of the materials are delivered too late) and assigning a 
priority scale to some working stations. In this regard, future 
works should include a more reliable data dissemination 
protocol with various milk-run operations. The optimization 
conducted should not be seen as ‘stand-alone’ but integrated 
into a more complex manufacturing system. In this case, the 
information on working stations’ needs, materials inventory, 
tugger trains availability, etc., should be managed according to 
the end-to-end approach.    
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The work was carried out with the support of Fincons to 
implement the model in the computational algorithm and allow 
the communication of data between server and tugger driver 
devices of the automotive company. 
REFERENCES 
Adriano, D. D., Montez, C., Novaes, A. G. N., & Wangham, 
M. (2020). Dmrvr: Dynamic milk-run vehicle routing 
solution using fog-based vehicular ad hoc networks. 
Electronics (Switzerland), 9(12). 
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics9122010 
Aksoy, A., & Öztürk, N. (2016). A two-stage method to 
optimize the milk-run system. European Journal of 
Engineering Research and Science, 1(3), 7–11. 
Retrieved from 
https://www.ejers.org/index.php/ejers/article/view/152 
a. 
b. 


--- SAYFA 6 ---
	
Francesco Facchini  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 55-10 (2022) 1122–1127	
1127
Alnahhal, M., Ridwan, A., & Noche, B. (2014). In-plant milk 
run decision problems. In Proceedings of 2nd IEEE 
International Conference on Logistics Operations 
Management, GOL 2014. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/GOL.2014.6887421 
Azizi, A., Yazdi, P. G., Humairi, A. Al, Alsalmi, M., Rashdi, 
B. Al, Zakwani, Z. Al, & Sheikaili, S. AL. (2015). 
Design and fabrication of intelligent material handling 
system in modern manufacturing with industry 4.0 
approaches. International Robotics & Automation 
Journal, 4(3). 
https://doi.org/10.15406/iratj.2018.04.00121 
Bocewicz, G., Nielsen, P., & Banaszak, Z. (2019). 
Declarative modeling of a milk-run vehicle routing 
problem for split and merge supply streams scheduling. 
In Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing 
(Vol. 853). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-99996-
8_15 
Bocewicz, Grzegorz, Banaszak, Z., Rudnik, K., Smutnicki, 
C., Witczak, M., & Wójcik, R. (2021). An ordered-
fuzzy-numbers-driven approach to the milk-run routing 
and scheduling problem. Journal of Computational 
Science, 49. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2020.101288 
Bocewicz, Grzegorz, Bozejko, W., Wójcik, R., & Banaszak, 
Z. (2019). Milk-run routing and scheduling subject to a 
trade-off between vehicle fleet size and storage 
capacity. Management and Production Engineering 
Review, 10(3). 
https://doi.org/10.24425/mper.2019.129597 
Bocewicz, Grzegorz, Nielsen, P., Jasiulewicz-Kaczmarek, 
M., & Banaszak, Z. (2020). Dynamic planning of 
mobile service teams’ mission subject to orders 
uncertainty constraints. Applied Sciences (Switzerland), 
10(24). https://doi.org/10.3390/app10248872 
Digiesi, S., Mossa, G., & Rubino, S. (2015). A sustainable 
EOQ model for repairable spare parts under uncertain 
demand. IMA Journal of Management Mathematics. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/imaman/dpu004 
Digiesi, Salvatore, Mascolo, G., Mossa, G., & Mummolo, G. 
(2016). New models for sustainable logistics: 
Internalization of external costs in inventory 
management. New Models for Sustainable Logistics: 
Internalization of External Costs in Inventory 
Management. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-
19710-4 
Dong, W., Zhou, K., Qi, H., He, C., & Zhang, J. (2018). A 
tissue P system based evolutionary algorithm for multi-
objective VRPTW. Swarm and Evolutionary 
Computation, 39. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.swevo.2017.11.001 
Dridi, L., Mailhot, A., Parizeau, M., & Villeneuve, J.-P. 
(2009). Multiobjective Approach for Pipe Replacement 
Based on Bayesian Inference of Break Model 
Parameters. Journal of Water Resources Planning and 
Management, 135(5). 
https://doi.org/10.1061/(asce)0733-
9496(2009)135:5(344) 
Erboz, G. (2020). A qualitative study on industry 4.0 
competitiveness in Turkey using porter diamond 
model. Journal of Industrial Engineering and 
Management, 13(2). https://doi.org/10.3926/jiem.2915 
Greenwood, A. G., Kluska, K., & Pawlewski, P. (2017). A 
multi-level framework for simulating milk-run, in-plant 
logistics operations. In Communications in Computer 
and Information Science (Vol. 722). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-60285-1_18 
Kilic, H. S., Durmusoglu, M. B., & Baskak, M. (2012). 
Classification and modeling for in-plant milk-run 
distribution systems. International Journal of Advanced 
Manufacturing Technology, 62(9–12). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-011-3875-4 
Kodippili, H., & Samarasekera, N. A. (2019). Vehicle routing 
model for milk run delivery of fresh produce : the case 
of a 3PL service provider. 9th International Conference 
on Operations and Supply Chain Management. 
Mathew, M., & Sahu, S. (2018). Comparison of new multi-
criteria decision making methods for material handling 
equipment selection. Management Science Letters, 
8(3). https://doi.org/10.5267/j.msl.2018.1.004 
Radziwon, A., Bilberg, A., Bogers, M., & Madsen, E. S. 
(2014). The smart factory: Exploring adaptive and 
flexible manufacturing solutions. In Procedia 
Engineering (Vol. 69). 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2014.03.108 
Ticha, H. Ben, Absi, N., Feillet, D., & Quilliot, A. (2017). 
Empirical analysis for the VRPTW with a multigraph 
representation for the road network. Computers and 
Operations Research, 88. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cor.2017.06.024 
Wu, Q., Wang, X., He, Y. D., Xuan, J., & He, W. D. (2018). 
A robust hybrid heuristic algorithm to solve multi-plant 
milk-run pickup problem with uncertain demand in 
automobile parts industry. Advances in Production 
Engineering And Management, 13(2). 
https://doi.org/10.14743/apem2018.2.282 
Zhang, D., Cai, S., Ye, F., Si, Y. W., & Nguyen, T. T. (2017). 
A hybrid algorithm for a vehicle routing problem with 
realistic constraints. Information Sciences, 394–395. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2017.02.028 
Zhang, P., Lv, Y., & Zhang, J. (2018). An improved 
imperialist competitive algorithm based 
photolithography machines scheduling. International 
Journal of Production Research, 56(3). 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2017.1346320 
 
