

--- SAYFA 1 ---
IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409
ScienceDirect
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
2405-8963 © 2018, IFAC (International Federation of Automatic Control) Hosting by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Peer review under responsibility of International Federation of Automatic Control.
10.1016/j.ifacol.2018.07.066
© 2018, IFAC (International Federation of Automatic Control) Hosting by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

1. INTRODUCTION 
Safety enhancement, traffic reduction and efficiency 
improvement are the expected benefits of supplying the 
assembly line with tugger trains, in place of forklifts. For these 
reasons, tugger trains are becoming popular means of supply 
in intensive material handling production systems (Schmidt, 
Meinhardt and Schulze, 2016). However, introducing this 
material handling system, based on the “pull” principle of 
Kanban and the milk-run approach, is more complex than the 
mere replacement of one means of transport by another. A 
complex planning influenced by a set of interrelated 
parameters is essential and an impact on the dispatching 
strategies, layout and current processes is often inevitable. 
Recently the Association of German Engineers (VDI– Verein 
Deutscher Ingenieure) has developed and published a 
standardized approach (VDI 5586, April 2016, still a draft 
version) to tackle the problem of planning in-plant milk-run 
systems. The planning method proposed mainly focuses the 
material-flow and it is bounded to a set of strong assumptions. 
These assumptions limit the applicability of the methodology 
only to specific scenarios, where production and logistic 
systems are designed at the same time and can influence each 
other during the planning process. Moreover, in the planning 
method introduced by the VDI, the information flow is only 
partially considered and the whole tugger train system is 
dimensioned according to a pure schedule-driven, therefore 
“push” approach. Dimensioning a logistic system following a 
schedule-driven approach means: (1) to estimate the items 
consumption independently from the actual production and (2) 
to dimension the buffers at the points of use as if production 
and logistics would be perfectly synchronous (material 
delivery is synchronous with the material consumption 
dictated by the production line speed). Any deviation from the 
plan (either wanted or unwanted) could cause total loss of 
control on the actual material flow, with problems such as: (1) 
redundant line-side material, (2) a new material flow of not-
entirely-empty containers or (3) starvation of items at the point 
of use with causing slowdown or stop of the production. 
How could the planning method be complemented in order to 
consider a demand-driven “pull” approach for material supply, 
hence the actual material consumption on the line? How could 
uncertainty be included in the planning so that lineside 
activities (e.g. assembly) are never stopped because of stock 
out or material shortage?  
In this paper, a new planning method will be presented and 
explained focusing not only the material flow, but also taking 
into account the current processes of the company and the 
related information flow. The method proposed will allow the 
planner to correctly dimension the buffer at the points of use 
considering existing processes and evaluating the impact of 
adopting different replenishment methods, such as Kanban 
cards, e-Kanban or direct order through buttons or sensors.  
2. STATE OF THE ART 
In this section, first a brief overview on tugger train systems is 
given, then the planning method proposed by the VDI is 
summarized and analyzed. Lastly, the VDI method for buffer 
dimensioning is explained in detail, laying the foundation for 
its further development, object of the next section. 
2.1 Tugger train system 
A typical tugger train system is a transport concept based on 
the milk-run principle, where material is transported from a 
centralized warehouse, also called supermarket (Fig. 1, 
Warehouse SM), to a defined number of stops (Fig. 1, S1 to 
S5), along a fixed defined route. Generally, these systems are 
operating on a fixed schedule (Klenk, Galka, Günthner, 2012). 
The means of transport is the tugger train, which consists of a 
Keywords: Milk-run, planning, tugger train, lean logistics, buffer dimension, reordering method  
Abstract: the appeal of a forklift-free shop floor is pushing enterprises towards lean logistic systems and 
tugger trains are becoming popular means of supply in intensive material handling production systems. 
Planning a tugger train system is a complex task influenced by a large set of interrelated parameters. The 
only standard available to help the planner in designing the tugger train logistic system is the draft norm 
VDI 5586 (April 2016). However this norm is only applicable under a set of restricting assumptions. In 
this paper a methodology to complement the approach proposed by the VDI is introduced and then applied 
to a numerical example. The results are briefly presented and discussed before suggesting forthcoming 
research.  
* ** ***ESB - Forschungszentrum Logistik, Reutlingen University  
Reutlingen, Germany (e-mail:* augusto.urru@reutlingen-university.de **marco.bonini@reutlingen-university.de 
***wolfgang.echelmeyer@reutlingen-university.de) 
A. Urru*, M. Bonini**, W. Echelmeyer*** 
Planning and dimensioning of a milk-run transportation system considering the 
actual line consumption 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
	
A. Urru  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409	
405
tugger and a set of trailers. On each trailer are loaded one or 
more standard Unit Load (UL). Often, in order to couple the 
Unit Load with the trailer, a mechanical interface, called 
trolley, is needed. The number of trailers usually varies from 2 
to 5. Key components of a tugger train systems are shown in 
the following Fig. 1. 
 
Fig. 1 Tugger train system layout (example) 
When looking at Fig. 1, boundaries of the system could be 
identified together with interfaces with uphill and downhill 
processes. The tugger train system is interfaced uphill with the 
warehouse (SM), for instance, through a pre-loading area and 
downhill with the production line through buffers at each stop. 
As explained by Harris H. et al. (2003) the process of 
supplying material along the route could be (1) coupled or (2) 
decoupled with the uphill commissioning process at the 
supermarket: (1) coupled means that the commissioning 
process is performed by the tugger train driver and a path 
through the shelves of the supermarket is included in the route, 
(2) decoupled means that material supply and commissioning 
processes are clearly separated: the tugger train driver enters 
the supermarket and stops at a specific point (pre loading area 
Fig. 1) to unload the empty unit loads and load the full ones. 
The commissioning process at the SM is accomplished by 
another operator or automated system. Especially in this case, 
the role played by the information gathering and the 
commissioning process itself is extremely important when 
dimensioning the logistic system and the necessary buffers at 
the point of use (Droste, Deuse, 2011). 
2.2 VDI 5586 
The VDI 5586 consists of two parts. The first, “Blatt 1”, 
concerns an overview on tugger train systems. It lays the 
foundation for understanding both technical aspects and 
alternative concepts of system development. Here examples of 
different system configurations are explained according to two 
possible paradigms to deliver material to the line: (1) the push 
paradigm, based on the perfect synchronism between 
theoretical consumption and real need of material, and (2) the 
pull principle, which uses techniques like the Kanban to ensure 
that the only material that is moved to the lines, it is the one 
that is really needed. In the second part, “Blatt 2”, a method to 
plan and dimension a tugger train systems is introduced, based 
however only on the push paradigm. Given that all the 
parameters characterizing the route such as route length, stops 
along the route and stops sequence are a priori defined, the 
method introduced by the VDI could be applied performing 
the following 8 steps calculation: (1) Throughput (UL/h), (2) 
Route frequency (lap/h), (3) Route period (h), (4) Route 
capacity Utilization, (5) Cycle time (𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐) (h), (6) Number of 
trains necessary, (7) Route time Utilization and (8) Buffer 
dimensions. The method can be applied to one single route at 
a time. Neither procedures for automatic route determination, 
nor for optimization fall within the scope of the norm. Key 
design figure of the tugger train route is the desired average 
throughput, where average means not only average in quantity, 
but also average in unit load type. The consumption rate of the 
items (UL/h) is considered to be constant and not subjected to 
any kind of variability and it is therefore unmistakably 
predictable, hence the possibility of using the push paradigm 
for moving to the line material that is theoretically needed 
according to the master production schedule. As a result, if the 
process runs smoothly, the tugger train system will be able to 
supply what is needed, where is needed and exactly when is 
needed. 
2.3 The role of information  
In the previous sections an overview on tugger train systems 
and the planning method introduced by the VDI has been 
given. In this section the role of information in decoupled 
systems is clarified. As already mentioned in a decoupled 
system supply and commissioning processes are neatly 
separated. This neat separation, however, is only possible if the 
actual material demand is deterministic and used to calculate  
the optimal delivery times (Klenk, Galka, Günthner, 2012). In 
other words, the whole planning relies on steady and frozen 
master production schedules with no margin for last minute 
adjustments or flexibility for human or system mistakes, 
sentence material shortage. In order to avoid this risk and 
supply what is actually needed to the line, a consumption 
oriented system should be adopted. Items are reordered 
according to the actual material consumption following the 
pull principle. Thanks to this information it is possible to 
synchronize production and logistics. The most common 
reorder techniques for detecting and communicating the actual 
need of the line are (1) the Kanban card, (2) the e-Kanban and 
(3) the direct order through a button or sensor placed lineside. 
The planning method must consider the whole replenishment 
process, which starts exactly when the need for a certain item 
is generated by its actual consumption. In the case of a tugger 
train system this means that the transportation of a certain item 
(Unit Load) is authorized only after the transportation order for 
the specific item has arrived at the supermarket (SM). In other 
words it is the need that triggers the transport, or, better put, 
the information of the need triggers the commissioning 
process. The commissioning process ends when the required 
unit loads are ready in the pre-loading area of the SM. For this 
reason the time that the information takes to be communicated 
to the SM is a key factor for the planning of the system and the 
dimensioning of the buffers. The planning method introduced 
by the VDI 5586, however, does not consider the information 
flow. It is explicitly explained how the whole tugger train 
logistic system is dimensioned according to a deterministic 
approach. The commissioning process at the SM starts 
independently from the production and it is based on the 
expected consumption rate at the points of use (hence on the 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
406	
A. Urru  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409
frozen master production schedule). Any deviation from the 
plan (either wanted or unwanted) could cause total loss of 
control on the actual material flow, with problems such as: 
redundant material at the delivery side, a new material flow of 
not-entirely-empty containers or starvation of items at the 
point of use causing slowdown or stop of the production. This 
is evident especially in the last step of the planning method 
“buffer dimensions”. 
2.4 Buffer Dimensioning 
 
Following the VDI approach 
According to the VDI the buffer dimensions should be 
calculated for each item separately adding one extra position 
in order to make it possible to exchange the empty unit load 
with the full one, as shown in the following formulas. 
𝑞𝑞𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 1 + ⌈𝑛𝑛𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿,𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻⌉ 
(1) 
𝑛𝑛𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿,𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 𝜆𝜆𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻
𝑓𝑓𝑟𝑟
 
(2) 
𝑄𝑄𝑅𝑅= ∑
𝑞𝑞𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻
𝑛𝑛𝐴𝐴
 
(3) 
Where 𝑞𝑞𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻 is the buffer dimension in number of unit load per 
item (A) at the stop (H), 𝑛𝑛𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿,𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻 the average consumption in 
UL of the item A at the stop H in the span of time between two 
visits to the same stop H (called hereafter “takt”),  𝜆𝜆𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻 the 
average consumption of unit load per hour of item A at the stop 
H and 𝑓𝑓𝑟𝑟 is the hourly route frequency. 𝑄𝑄𝑅𝑅 represents the total 
number of buffer positions needed considering the 
requirements of every stop belonging to the route (R).  
 
Complementing the guideline approach 
This formula for the calculation of the buffer dimension for 
each item suits only when material is pushed to the line 
following the master production schedule and independently 
on the actual consumption. In the case the system is designed 
to answer to last-minute fluctuations and unforeseeable events, 
the actual consumption of items must be considered and 
therefore the replenishment of the buffers must be triggered 
through a reordering method (Kanban card, e-Kanban, etc.) 
rather than pushed according to the master production 
schedule. In this case the buffer at the stops represents the 
decoupling point between logistics and production and its 
dimensioning must be consistent with the pull principle and 
reordering method upon which the system will work. 
Dimensioning the buffer without considering the information 
flow, which is different according to different reordering 
methods, would lead to its underestimation. In order for the 
logistic system to work properly and react to disturbances the 
calculation of the buffer must consider both the gathering of 
information and the process of commissioning at the SM. 
3. METHOD 
The method proposed in this section aims at dimensioning the 
buffer of a tugger train system, considering the ability of the 
system of answering to last-minute fluctuations and 
unforeseeable events; the material is therefore replenished to 
the lines following the pull paradigm and using different 
reordering systems. The approach is based on the formula 
proposed by the VDI 5586; the calculation still considers an 
extra place at the buffer for the UL exchange, but the average 
consumption of UL of the item A at the stop H in a takt is 
weighted by a factor 𝑘𝑘.      
𝑞𝑞𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 1 + ⌈𝑘𝑘∗𝑛𝑛𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿,𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻⌉ 
(4) 
The factor k is affected by the reordering method and the 
information gathering process and estimates the maximum 
number of takt needed in order to accomplish the 
replenishment activities. The idea that led the authors to 
introduce this factor is absolute stock-out avoidance, which 
brings to the necessity of considering a replenishment worst-
case scenario that could be caused by: traffic delays, changes 
in the production schedule, production yield variance, etc. For 
this reason also the cycle time, needed in order to calculate the 
factor k, should be calculated following the worst case 
approach.    
The method hereafter presented is applicable to three different 
scenarios, which differ in the reordering process and, 
consequently, in the calculation of the factor k.  
3.1 Scenario 1  
Reordering method: Kanban card (attached to the unit load) 
 Information gathering process description: The driver of the 
tugger train stops at a stop H along the route, unloads the full 
unit loads and loads the empty ones on the train. The driver 
Fig. 2 Scenario 1 -  Reordering process Kanban card  


--- SAYFA 4 ---
	
A. Urru  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409	
407
drives back to the supermarket and unloads the empty 
containers. Only then, the information about what is needed at 
the points of use it is available at the supermarket and the 
commissioning process can start.  After the commissioning 
process has finished, the unit loads are in the pre-loading area, 
ready to be loaded on the first available tugger train. 
Considering the information gathering process, the worst case 
occurs when the demand, represented by the empty blue square 
in Fig. 2 and by an empty container in reality, appears right 
after a tugger train has left the stop H (S1 in Fig. 2). The 
demand can only be detected next time a tugger train stops at 
the same stop, which happens after one takt. Once the demand 
has been recognized and the empty container loaded on the 
trailer, the train continues its tour until he drives back to the 
SM: this is the time the information takes to be communicated 
to the SM (𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖). Only after the acknowledgment of the 
demand the commissioning process can start and will last, for 
the item A, a specific commissioning time 𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝐴𝐴. 
After the unit load has been commissioned it can be loaded on 
the tugger train. The unit load will then be delivered to the 
point of use: this is called “delivery time” (𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑). As shown in 
(6), in this case (𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖) and  (𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑) are always complementary 
and, put together, equivalent to the cycle time in the worst case 
(𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊), hence the longest time a cycle can last, due to the fact 
that the train visits the maximum possible amount of stops 
(loads and unloads UL not in the same, but in different stops 
of the route). A fundamental role is played by the 
commissioning time. In fact, if the commissioning is fast 
enough to make the requested UL available before the tugger 
train loading process starts (Fig. 2, I Case), the unit load could 
be delivered within the next tour. Otherwise the ceiling-up 
function prevents the buffer from being under dimensioned 
allowing the delivery of the unit load within the tour after the 
next (Fig. 2, II Case ).  
3.2 Scenario 2  
Reordering method: e-Kanban (Barcode) 
Information gathering process description: The driver of the 
tugger train stops at a stop H, unloads the full unit loads, scans 
the barcode of the empty ones and load them on the tugger 
train. The information is immediately available to the SM and 
the commissioning process can start immediately after 
(𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖= 0). The driver continues his tour until he drives back 
to the supermarket and unloads the empty containers. When 
calculating the delivery time 𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑, the worst case is considered, 
meaning that the tugger train will visit the maximum amount 
of stops between the stop H and the Supermarket, hence 
𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻,𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤 .  
𝑘𝑘𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 1 + ⌈
𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝐴𝐴+ 𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻,𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤
𝑡𝑡𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
⌉,  𝑘𝑘∈𝑁𝑁 
(7) 
Considering the information gathering process the worst case 
occurs again when the demand appears right after a tugger 
train has left the stop (Fig. 3). If the commissioning process 
finishes before the train is loaded at the supermarket, the unit 
load could be delivered within the next tour (Fig. 3, I Case), 
otherwise the ceiling-up function prevents the buffer from 
being under dimensioned allowing the delivery of the unit load 
within the tour after the next (Fig. 3, II Case).  
Fig. 3 Scenario 2 - Reordering process e-Kanban 
3.3 Scenario 3 
Reordering method: direct order line side (button or sensor) 
Information gathering process description: The reordering 
process is independent of the tugger train driver. The operator 
who is working on the assembly or production line (line side) 
is responsible for pressing the proper button as soon as a unit 
load is empty (alternatively the presence of an empty container 
can be detected by a sensor that triggers the demand). The 
information is immediately transmitted to the supermarket and 
the commissioning process could start right away (𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖= 0). 
The driver drives along the route exchanging full unit loads 
with empty ones and loading at the supermarket what is ready 
to be loaded.  
𝑘𝑘𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 1 + [
𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝐴𝐴+ 𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻,𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤
𝑡𝑡𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
] ,  𝑘𝑘∈𝑅𝑅 
(8) 
In order to understand the worst case, the concept of break-
even time needs to be explained first. Fig. 4, I Case, shows the 
best case scenario which defines the break-even time. In this 
case the signal for the demand arrives in the exact same 
moment the commissioning process should start in order for 
the UL to be loaded on the tugger train right before its 
departure from the SM. As a result the UL will be delivered 
within the next tour. Theoretically, if the demand arrives even 
one second after the break-even time, the commissioning 
process will not be finished before the train has departed from 
the SM. In this case (the worst case indeed), the item will not 
be delivered in the next tour, but in the one after the next and 
the buffer available at the stop should be large enough to cover 
not only the commissioning time and the time of delivery for 
the train to arrive at the stop, but also one additional takt time 
as shown in (8) and Fig. 4, II Case. If the demand arrives before 
the break-even time the item will be delivered within the next 
departure and so the buffer estimated in (8) will be large 
enough. For the sake of completeness Fig. 4, III Case shows 
what would happen with a longer commissioning time,  
𝑘𝑘𝐴𝐴,𝐻𝐻= 1 + ⌈𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖+ 𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝑐𝐴𝐴+ 𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑
𝑡𝑡𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
⌉, 𝑘𝑘∈𝑁𝑁 
(5) 
𝑡𝑡𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖+ 𝑡𝑡𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑= 𝑡𝑡𝑐𝑐𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊 
(6) 


--- SAYFA 5 ---
408	
A. Urru  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409
Fig. 4 Scenario 3 - Reordering process direct order 
proving that the formula applies even to this case and that the 
time between the end of the commissioning and the beginning 
of the delivery process is always smaller than one takt time. 
For these reasons the ceiling up function it is no longer 
necessary and k belongs to the set 𝑅𝑅 and not 𝑁𝑁, which is the 
only difference between formula (7) and (8). 
4. RESULTS 
In this section a numerical example will be introduced and 
both the method proposed by the VDI and the one presented in 
this paper applied, in order to estimate the buffer dimensions 
according to different reordering processes and compare the 
results. As already mentioned in the introduction planning and 
dimensioning a tugger train system is a complex topic 
influenced by a set of interrelated parameters. In order to help 
the reader focusing the buffer dimensioning problem, the 
following example is based on few simplifications and 
assumptions: the variety of articles delivered is limited in 
number and type, the delivery route is unique and delivery and 
commissioning process at the supermarket are decoupled.  
A tugger train supplies an assembly line with different parts (9 
items) homogeneously stored in a unique type of unit load 
(UL). The ULs are delivered along one single route made of a 
set of 5 stops (S1-S5, see layout in  Fig. 1) equally distributed 
along the route. The route is 124 meters long and the tugger 
train speed is assumed to be, for the sake of simplicity, 1 (m/s). 
Also to simplify calculation, instead of considering the true 
acceleration and deceleration ramps of the vehicle, a 10 
seconds delay is considered for each stop; following the same 
approach, an extra delay of 20 seconds (for the whole route) is 
considered in order to take into account accelerations and 
decelerations due to corridor, junctions and turns. Exchange 
time (full UL with empty UL at the stop as well as empty UL 
with full UL at the SM) for each UL is considered to be 30 
seconds. The tugger train tows three (3) trailers and each trailer 
is able to carry one (1) unit load at a time. The UL could be 
loaded or unloaded on both side of the trailer. The 
commissioning time at the supermarket is 2 min for each UL, 
but it is possible to commission up to three (3) unit loads 
simultaneously, so that the whole train can be commissioned 
within 2 minutes. Every hour the line generates an output of 5 
finished products. The following Table 1 summarizes the 
consumption rates according to each item and stop along the 
route considering the line throughput variation. These data 
have been the input for the system dimensioning. 
Table 1 Consumption rates according to different line 
throughputs 
In order to find a numerical evidence of the impact of the 
proposed method, the tugger train system has been planned 
according to different line throughputs, keeping other 
parameters unchanged. The line throughput has been increased 
first by 100% to 10 product/hour and then by an additional 
20% to 12 finished product every hour (see Table 2 , forecast-
driven column). First, the planning has been conducted 
according to a forecast-driven reordering process, hence 
following the 8-steps planning method described in the VDI 
norm, then, with exactly the same data in input, the planning 
has been repeated applying the method proposed in this paper 
for three different reordering methods: Kanban card, e-Kanban 
and direct order.   
Results are shown in Table 2 and represented in the following 
Fig. 5. It is clear that applying the method proposed by the VDI 
a variation in the line throughput does not affect the buffer 
dimensioning. In fact, a higher route frequency ensures that the 
needed material is always fed to the line in the right amount. 
Table 2 Tugger train system dimensioning according to different throughputs and reordering methods 
Item # Stop 
(S)
Unit 
Load 
Type
Consumption 
[UL/h]
Consumption 
at the Stop  
[UL/h]
Consumption 
[UL/h]
Consumption 
at the Stop  
[UL/h]
Consumption 
[UL/h]
Consumption 
at the Stop  
[UL/h]
001
GLT
2
4
4,8
006
GLT
1
2
2,4
004
GLT
3
6
7,2
005
GLT
2
4
4,8
002
GLT
1
2
2,4
007
GLT
3
6
7,2
008
GLT
2
4
4,8
009
S3
GLT
1
1,00
2
2,00
2,4
2,40
003
S5
GLT
1
1,00
2
2,00
2,4
2,40
Line Troughput 5 Products Line Troughput 10 Products Line Troughput 12 Products
S4
6,00
12,00
14,40
S1
3,00
6,00
7,20
S2
5,00
10,00
12,00
Reordering process
0
Line Througput 
[products/h]
5
10
12
5
10
12
5
10
12
5
10
12
1
Througput [UL/h]
16
32
38,4
16
32
38,4
16
32
38,4
16
32
38,4
2
Route frequency [lap/h]
6
12
15
6
12
15
6
12
15
6
12
15
3
Takt time [min]
10
5
4
10
5
4
10
5
4
10
5
4
4
Route Utilization 
(Capacity)
0,89
0,89
0,853
0,89
0,89
0,853
0,89
0,89
0,853
0,89
0,89
0,853
5
Cycle time [min]
5,75
5,75
5,65
5,75
5,75
5,65
5,75
5,75
5,65
5,75
5,75
5,65
6
Number of trains 
necessary
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
1
2
2
7
Route Utilization (Time)
0,575
0,575
0,706
0,575
0,575
0,706
0,575
0,575
0,706
0,575
0,575
0,706
8
Buffer dimensions (     )
18
18
18
18
20
23
18
19
20
18
19
19
Forecast-driven (push)
Kanban Card (pull)
e- Kanban (pull)
Direct Order (pull)


--- SAYFA 6 ---
	
A. Urru  et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 404–409	
409
On the other hand the increased frequency leads to an increase 
in necessary buffer places when the push paradigm is 
abandoned and different reordering processes are considered. 
When this is the case, the buffer dimension tends to grow 
together with the frequency increase. It is also noticeable how 
different reordering methods are more or less sensitive to an 
increase in line throughput, main reason being the different 
reaction time to disturbances characterizing the logistic 
system. 
 
Fig. 5 Buffer dimensioning according to different line throughput 
and reordering processes 
As expected a pull logistic system where the reordering 
process is triggered by a direct order (button or sensor) is much 
more  reactive in comparison to a logistic system based on the 
Kanban card method. As already explained the tugger train 
planning is a multidimensional problem and the reordering 
method is only one of the many aspects one could have 
influence on in order to increase the reliability of the logistic 
system. In the specific example, for instance when the line 
throughput is set to 10 (product/h), replacing the e-Kanban 
with the direct order brings no benefits in terms of buffer 
reduction. If reducing the buffer places is the goal and 
framework conditions cannot be changed other aspects such as 
the possibility of varying the stops order along the route, the 
number of items in each container or the commissioning 
process should be investigated. 
5. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 
Built on the strong statement that production should never stop 
or slow down because of logistics, the introduced method is 
based on a worst-case approach. Whether considering the 
worst-case approach is better than considering a probabilistic 
one does not fall within the scope of this section. However, 
given that monitoring and improving are inevitable steps for 
the successful adoption of a lean system, starting from a 
system which is correctly dimensioned is far better than 
starting from an under dimensioned one. Following the 
method proposed in this paper, it is possible to design a tugger 
train system from scratch, as long as the designer is able to 
steer and freeze, at each step of the method, several technical 
aspects such as layout configuration, technical equipment 
selection, takt time of deliveries, etc.. Consequences of these 
choices are not only affecting the logistic system itself. As a 
result the method proposed is useful especially when the 
design of the logistic system is taken into consideration at an 
early stage of the factory or line design. For this reason this 
method applies mainly to recent facilities or production lines 
of intensive production system, where the simultaneous 
planning of production and logistic systems is supported 
(Schmidt, Meinhardt and Schulze, 2016). As a matter of fact 
the expected benefits of safety enhancement, traffic reduction 
and efficiency improvement drew small and medium sized 
enterprises (SME) attention. Especially in this kind of 
industrial realities it is not always trivial to redesign the 
production line, modify the layout or change well established 
existing processes. Exactly under these circumstances, where 
the freedom of the designer is limited, the buffer dimensioning 
method plays a fundamental role. Given that the buffer 
dimension is more a constraint then the goal of the planning 
process, only through a specific and precise buffer 
dimensioning method, it is possible to evaluate different 
design alternatives, to define a threshold in the performance 
level of up-hill and down-hill processes and to lay the 
foundation to overturn the methodology proposed by the VDI 
adapting it to highly constrained scenarios. Further research on 
this topic is foreseeable: first validating the method results 
through a simulation model, than developing a new extensive 
planning methodology in order to help SMEs evaluating the 
opportunities and risks of investing in a lean logistic system 
based on tugger trains.   
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
Supported by „EFRE Program Baden-Württemberg 2014-
2020“ Project: ZAFH Intralogistik and by „Forschung an 
Fachhochschulen mit Unternehmen (FHprofUnt)“ Project: 
KollRo 4.0 - Kollaborativer Routenzug 
REFERENCES 
Droste, M., Deuse, J. (2011). A planning Approach for In-plant 
Milk Run Processes to Optimize Material Provision in 
Assembly Systems. In: 4th International Conference on 
Changeable, 
Agile, 
Reconfigurable 
and 
Virtual 
Production (CARV2011). Montreal, Canada. 
Harris, H.,  Harris, C. and Wilson, E. (2003). Making 
Materials Flow, MA, USA, The lean Enterprise Institute, 
pp. 54-58. 
Klenk, E., Galka, S. and Günthner W. A. (2012). Analysis of 
parameters influencing in-plant milk-run design for 
production supply. In: International Material Handling 
Research Colloquium. Gardanne, France. 
Klenk, E., Galka, S. and Günthner W. A. (2015). Operating 
Strategies for In-Plant Milk-Run Systems. IFAC-
PapersOnLine vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 1882–1887. 
Klug, F. (2006). Synchronised automotive logistics: an 
optimal mix of pull and push principles in automotive 
supply networks. In: Logistics research network 
conference proceedings, Hsrg. Von Bourlakis, M., et al., 
Newcastle University, pp. 187-191. 
Schmidt, T., Meinhardt, I. and Schulze, F. (2016). New design 
guidelines for in-plant milk-run systems, Chair of logistics 
Engineering Technische Universität Dresden. 
Vereine Deutscher Ingenieure (2016). VDI 5586, Blatt 2, 
Routenzugsysteme 
Planung 
und 
Dimensionierung, 
Düsseldorf. 
