

--- SAYFA 1 ---
Dynamic material ﬂow control in mixed model assembly lines q
Mohammed Alnahhal ⇑, Bernd Noche
Transport Systems and Logistics, Duisburg-Essen University, Duisburg 47058, Germany
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 23 July 2014
Received in revised form 15 March 2015
Accepted 16 March 2015
Available online 21 March 2015
Keywords:
Material ﬂow
Milk run
Assembly lines
Disturbances
Dynamic planning
Resequencing
a b s t r a c t
This study investigates the control of material ﬂow in mixed model assembly lines. It focuses on the use
of tugger trains to feed stations in assembly lines by materials and parts from a warehouse or a
supermarket. The movement of tugger trains is based on the principle of in-plant milk run. The study
considers a strategy to deal with disturbances such as machine breakdown, line stoppage, defective parts,
and resequencing of product models. These disturbances lead to unexpected ﬂuctuations in stations
demand for parts. The strategy is applied using a mix between the demand-oriented and e-kanban
systems to facilitate the planning of three problems, namely, train routing, scheduling, and loading.
The information obtained using e-kanban is combined with the information about the expected stations
demand based on previously known sequence of product models and the materials needed for each
model. Routing was investigated analytically while scheduling and loading problems were investigated
using integer programming. Results showed that the method proposed outperforms the traditional
methods of material ﬂow planning.
 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
In mixed model assembly line (MMAL) environment, different
product models can be assembled on the same line to fulﬁll the
diversiﬁed customer needs. The planning process for MMAL
contains several tasks, one of which is the supplying process of
materials just-in-time (JIT) from the warehouse or a supermarket.
Any delay of materials replenishment can result in stoppage of
the assembly line which means idle time for several workers. On
the other hand, too early material replenishment can lead to
accumulation of materials in the area near the stations which is
very scarce and expensive (Baudin, 2004).
A recently used transporter of materials is the tugger train
which depends on the milk run principle. This principle is suitable
for the repetitive JIT supply of materials and parts in small contain-
ers (bins) (Kilic, Durmusoglu, & Baskak, 2012). Every certain period,
called cycle time, a group of stations are supplied by materials from
a warehouse or a supermarket. Supermarkets are scattered inven-
tory areas playing the role of intermediate storage between the
main warehouse and the stations for the purpose of being close
to these stations (Emde & Boysen, 2012b; Emde, Fliedner, &
Boysen, 2012). The group of stations supplied by the same tugger
train is called a cell. The train cycle time (TCT) is different from
the station cycle time (SCT) which is the time interval between
two successive product models coming out from the station. To
plan this in-plant milk run system, train routing, scheduling, and
loading must be determined (Emde & Boysen, 2012b; Emde
et al., 2012). In routing problem, the assignment of each train to
a group of stations is accomplished. It is found in the practice that
sometimes routes are ﬁxed and determined independently from
the other two tasks to standardize the system. To facilitate that,
certain colors are used on the aisles for certain routes. In schedul-
ing problem, TCT and the beginning of train movement are deter-
mined. In loading problem, the exact material loaded in each
cycle is determined. The number of bins for each material type
must be determined to fulﬁll stations’ demand. Sometimes in peak
demand periods, the total demand of stations is higher than the
capacity of tugger train. In this case, bins can be loaded before they
are actually needed. This type of loading, however, increases the
inventory holding cost in a very scarce area.
To plan all these problems, the future demand of stations must
be estimated. The exact station demand for materials and parts is
usually determined using two systems, namely, demand-oriented
and kanban (Klenk, Galka, & Günthner, 2012). In the ﬁrst one, the
exact demand is usually known for the next few shifts depending
on the knowledge of workpieces (product models) sequence and
the needed materials by each workpiece (Emde &
Boysen,
2012b). The second system uses regular kanban or electronic
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2015.03.009
0360-8352/ 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
q This manuscript was processed by Area Editor Manoj Tiwari.
⇑Corresponding author at: Transport Systems and Logistics, Duisburg-Essen
University, Keetmanstr. 3-7, 47058 Duisburg, Germany. Tel.: +49 203 379 7706; fax:
+49 203 379 3048.
E-mail address: mjnahhal@yahoo.com (M. Alnahhal).
Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Computers & Industrial Engineering
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/caie


--- SAYFA 2 ---
kanban. However, on the ground the exact demand is not easily
determined because of the disturbances that can happen (Choi &
Lee, 2002). Machine breakdowns, workstation starvation, line
stoppage, defective parts, and resequencing are just examples for
these disturbances. So the planning process depending on the
determination of stations demand must be dynamic and ﬂexible.
Except the study by Choi and Lee (2002) which considered the case
of resequencing, according to the best of the knowledge of the
authors, our paper is the ﬁrst one that concentrates on dealing with
all the disturbances mentioned above in the milk run system. The
difference between our study and the study by Choi and Lee (2002)
is explained in the next section.
In this study, tugger train routing, scheduling, and loading prob-
lems are investigated assuming dynamic environment that is sub-
jected to disturbances. To facilitate that, a mix between the
demand-oriented and electronic kanban systems is used. This
study is organized as follows: Section 2 is about the theoretical
background and literature review. Section 3 presents the need for
dynamic planning. Section 4 is about routing problem. Section 5
is about scheduling problem. Loading problem is in Section 6.
Section 7 presents the results and analysis. Finally, Section 8
presents the conclusion of the study
2. Theoretical background and literature review
To explain the approach in this study some concepts should be
clear. In MMAL, a station may be closed or open at either side of a
station boundary. In a closed station, the operator must work
within the boundary limits of the station. In an open station, an
operator is permitted to move outside his station up to some
speciﬁc limits (Sarker & Pan, 2001). It is possible for stations to
be combinations of the two previous types. Work congestion occurs
when the assembly work is done beyond the station downstream
limit, while work deﬁciency occurs when the assembly work is done
beyond the station upstream limit (Macaskill, 1973).
Because of the varying assembly time of different models, an
operator tends to have an uneven amount of work. As a result,
the assembly line is expected to experience blocking and starvation
phenomena. Blocking results in utility time (over load) which occurs
when an operator cannot ﬁnish his work on a product model
before reaching the workstation boundary downstream and needs
additional operator(s) to ﬁnish the incomplete product model.
Starvation results in the idle time which occurs when an operator
needs to wait for a product model to enter the upstream boundary
of his workstation area (Sarker & Pan, 2001). There is another type
of workstation starvation which occurs when there is a shortage in
the needed materials coming from the warehouse.
Beside starvation and blocking there are other types of distur-
bances that affect the work of MMAL. Some of these disturbances
come from the failure of some machines, different processing times
for different product models, and ﬂuctuations and changes in
customer
demand.
If
unforeseen
disturbances
like
machine
breakdowns or material shortages occur, a resequencing of a given
production sequence often becomes essential (Boysen, Scholl, &
Wopperer, 2012). Moreover, in an assembly line of a JIT production
system, workers have the power and the responsibility to stop the
line when they fail to complete their operations within their work
zones (Xiaobo & Ohno, 2000). So, line stoppage and utility work are
two alternatives to deal with the case in which the worker cannot
ﬁnish his/her work on time.
The part feed problem has been widely studied in the literature.
For example, Caputo and Pelagagge (2011) investigated the part
feeding policy where their analysis focused on three basic policies,
namely kitting, just in time kanban-based continuous supply and
line storage. Some guidelines and decision tools were provided to
assist production managers in the selection of proper policies for
components delivery to assembly systems. The research methodol-
ogy was based on developing theory-based quantitative planning
models associated with an empirical approach to assign candidate
delivery methods to speciﬁc components groups. The forklift sys-
tem was investigated by several studies. For example, considering
Assembly to Order (ATO) or Make to Order (MTO) mixed model
assembly lines systems, Battini, Faccio, Persona, and Sgarbossa
(2009) investigated both the inventory centralization/decentraliza-
tion problem and the line feeding policy in a general framework.
They considered three feeding policies which are pallet to
workstation, trolley to workstation, and kit to assembly line. So
they concentrated on three different transport devices (fork-lift,
hand truck or trolley, assembly kit). They ignored investigating
the use of tugger trains in their feeding policy. A multi-factorial
analysis has been carried out and an industrial application of the
introduced framework was illustrated. Boysen and Bock (2011)
considered the feeding of parts using forklifts from a central ware-
house. They presented a case study for a company manufacturing
cars. In this company the mixed model assembly line is located
in the second ﬂoor. So a hoist system is used to get the parts to
the second ﬂoor where forklifts are ready to take parts and deliver
them to the workstations. Part distribution by the forklift is a
bottleneck. Therefore, a suitable sequence of given material boxes
has to be found. Furthermore, a direct comparison with a simple
two-bin kanban system was provided.
In milk run system, the literature shows that there are four
main decisions which are:
 Supermarket location problem (Alnahhal & Noche, 2015; Emde
& Boysen, 2012a)
 Tugger train routing (Emde & Boysen, 2012a; Golz et al., 2012;
Emde & Boysen, 2012b)
 Tugger train scheduling (Emde & Boysen, 2012b; Golz et al.,
2012; Choi & Lee, 2002)
 Tugger train loading (Choi & Lee, 2002; Golz et al., 2012; Emde
et al., 2012).
In our study, the last three items which are routing, scheduling
and loading problems are considered in the environment of mixed
model assembly lines taking into consideration the occurrence of
disturbances.
Other types of classiﬁcations can be as follow:
 Transport devices: forklift, hand truck or trolley, assembly kit,
and tugger train
 Material ﬂow control: demand-oriented and kanban (e-kanban
and traditional kanban)
 Production environment: mixed model assembly line and
others (such as job shops)
 Inventory
type:
centralized
warehouse
and
decentralized
supermarket
More classiﬁcations can be found in Klenk et al. (2012). In this
study, tugger trains are used. The study combines, for the ﬁrst time,
the demand oriented and e-kanban types in the same time. In pro-
duction environment type, mixed model assembly line is consid-
ered. Moreover, the two types of inventory can be considered.
Before get into details, a big picture of the decisions should
be
considered.
For
example,
Battini,
Gamberi,
Persona,
and
Sgarbossa (2015) presented an approach for the part feeding for
assembly systems in which supermarket storage is adopted and
coupled with an automated transportation system. They made a
conceptual framework for the design of the system. The supermar-
ket type can be ﬁsh bone, single line, or multi line. The transporta-
tion mode can be shuttle/conveyor, AGV/LGV, or tow train. The line
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
111


--- SAYFA 3 ---
side presentation can be load unit, station kit, and traveling kit. A
decision support matrix was presented where the tow train, AGV,
and shuttles are compared based on certain criteria. In most of
the cases the tow train was found to be the best option. The
transportation system choice was found to be strongly affected
by four key parameters: the number of meters traveled during
the feeding process, the assembly line dimension (i.e. the number
of stations), the assembly line takt time and the number of part
bins demanded by stations per takt.
In the literature of milk run system, the control system of mate-
rial supply is demand-oriented system or kanban system. Several
studies concentrated on the ﬁrst one. For example, Emde and
Boysen (2012b) studied the train routing and scheduling together
in parallel to decrease the inventory holding costs. Emde et al.
(2012) studied the loading problem to minimize the inventory hold-
ing cost. The two studies assumed that the feeding process starts
from decentralized supermarkets. Golz, Gujjula, Günther, Rinderer,
and Ziegler (2012) studies the routing, scheduling, and loading prob-
lems in a centralized inventory system. Outside the milk run system,
train scheduling is known in the literature. For example, Babu et al.
(2014) studied train scheduling, ship scheduling and stockyard
management in the context of coal imports in port terminals.
One the other hand, other studies concentrated on the kanban
system. Bozer and Ciemnoczolowski (2013) and Ciemnoczolowski
and Bozer (2013) investigated the traditional kanban system
where they determined the number of kanban assuming a given
workstation starvation level. Before that, they presented the
distribution of demand for bins assuming that the demand is
always one or two bins for each workstation during the train cycle.
A study by Faccio, Gamberi, Persona, Regattieri, and Sgarbossa
(2013b) used simulation to analyze the system. In another study
by Faccio, Gamberi, and Persona (2013a), a cost model has been
proposed using analytical approach. They concentrated on the
special attributes of such a system and they provided an innovative
procedure to optimally set all decision variables. A study by Faccio
(2014)
also
investigated
the
milk
run
kanban
system
and
compared it to kitting system in the case of using decentralized
supermarket. The comparison was based on the impact of produc-
tion mix variability and of the models variety. Bortolini, Ferrari,
Gamberi, Manzini, and Regattieri (2015) presented a model for
feeding the parts from supermarket to mixed model assembly lines
and presented a real case study. The kanban system is used to
regulate the material ﬂow. There are three costs drivers which
are material handling cost, inventory cost of the assembly lines,
and stock out cost. The tradeoff between the ﬂeet size and the size
of line side inventory has been addressed. Two free decisional vari-
ables are considered looking for their best value deﬁnition, i.e. the
number of carts per tow-train and the so-called security factor.
Dynamic planning for material replenishment was investigated
by Choi and Lee (2002) who studied the feeding process in an
automotive plant. At ﬁrst, they investigated the loading problem
in which the parts to be fed and the feeding amounts are indenti-
ﬁed. Then the feeding orders to feeders are assigned and routes are
formed. This is based on the objective of minimizing the deviation
of actual delivery time from the ideal one, where a certain safety
stock level should be kept. However, the loading problem in the
study by Choi and Lee (2002) did not take into consideration peak
demand periods in which the shuttles capacities are exceeded, so
their study does not contain early loading in which some bins are
loaded before they are needed. Furthermore, they only considered
the case of resequencing. According to the best of the knowledge of
the authors, the study by Choi and Lee (2002) was the only one
which concentrated on dynamic planning of the feeding system.
Our study investigates this dynamic planning process in terms of
routing, scheduling, and loading problems and considers the peak
demand periods. We present a system that is able to deal with
quality problems, line stoppage caused by machine breakdown or
inability of worker to ﬁnish his work on time, and resequencing
based on disturbances or customer needs.
3. The need for a dynamic system
At ﬁrst we investigate routing problem. We assume that the
routing problem is independent from disturbances and resequenc-
ing. The routing problem depends on the total average demand
which is usually stable even after resequencing. Stable routing will
give some stability in the system. On the other hand, scheduling
and loading problems should by dynamic to respond to the
changes in the detailed demand of stations. However, in the
routing problem in this study, the effect of early loading will be
taken into consideration. The results of the scheduling problem
are used as inputs for loading problem. However, scheduling was
investigated in a way that guarantees the feasibility of loading
problem regarding the capacity of the train. Scheduling and
loading problems in our study take into consideration the current
material amounts in line-side inventory after each disturbance.
The objective is to make these amounts of materials as close as
possible to the normal safety stock level as fast as possible. The
objective is done considering minimizing the number of cycles,
the probability of early loading, and the deviation of actual
line-side inventory from the ideal safety stock level.
The following basic assumptions are made in this study:
 There is no any disturbance in the movement of the tugger
trains. The disturbances only occur in MMAL
 The
demand
of
stations
can
be
represented
by
Poisson
distribution
 If there is no disturbances for a certain period of the shift, the
stations’ exact demand for parts can be expected in this period.
 The time between two disturbances is long enough to ﬁx the
problems caused by the ﬁrst disturbance. These problems are
basically the deviation of the size of line-side inventory from
the ideal safety stock size.
Basically the material control system can be categorized as
demand-oriented or kanban. In demand-oriented system, the exact
demand is assumed to be known in at least the next shift. This fact
makes the demand oriented-system able to deal with peaks period
of demand using early loading. However, there are some cases that
make it difﬁcult to anticipate the exact stations demand for parts.
Some of these cases are:
1. Resequencing: as stated before, the sequence of the product
models can be changed during the shift based on changes in
demand or some disturbances. In this case the total demand
during the shift remains the same but deviates from the original
plan over time.
2. Disturbances: for example in the case of line stoppage, the
demand can be shifted by stoppage time. Some minor changes
in demand can occur in the case of utility work. In this case
the demand can be delayed. Another problem arises when the
next station in which utility work is done has the same type
of material of the previous station. In this case the utility
worker may use the material of this next station. So the exact
quantity of material in the two stations’ line-side inventory is
no longer known. The same problem can occur in the case of
work deﬁciency.
3. Quality problems: if there are some defective parts, some extra
parts must be provided to compensate for the defective ones.
4. Unpaced MMAL: in an unpaced line, the tasks of the worksta-
tions can be decoupled from each other. So, each of the work-
stations operates independently (Smunt & Perkins, 1985). In
112
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119


--- SAYFA 4 ---
this system, in-process inventory is needed among stations,
where it is a design factor (Chakravarty & Shtub, 1985). In this
case the exact demand times cannot be known.
This study does not cover the last case. In the other cases, the
kanban system can be used since it depends on the continuous
feedback sent to the supermarket area about the status of the
parts consumptions. To enhance the performance of the system,
e-kanban can be used to send the signals instantly. However, this
study is about getting the advantages of both the e-kanban and
the demand-oriented systems to design a dynamic planning
system. In this system, the expected demand during the next few
train
cycles
after
disturbances
is
determined.
This
is
done
depending on the information gathered from the signals sent by
e-kanban system
to
the
supermarket
area
about
the
parts
consumption and resequencing details. This is important to know
the demand in the next train cycles and to exactly know the
amount of parts in line-side inventory. The exact parts consump-
tion can be obtained using radio frequency identiﬁcation (RFID)
system or bar code. Traditional kanban system is not very effective
in the proposed approach in this study because there are some
delays in sending the information about the exact size of consump-
tion of each station.
The following parameters must be known:
dpi: number of defective parts of type i during the previous
disturbance period
dik: the expected number of parts i demanded in station cycle k
according to the new workpieces sequence.
CPi: the number of consumed parts of type i during the previous
disturbance period
PDi: the planned number of delivered parts of type i during the
previous disturbance period
bi: ideal safety stock size for parts i
Then current line-side inventory for parts i(ai) can be estimated
as follows:
ai ¼ bi  ðCPi  PDi þ dpiÞ
ð1Þ
This value will be used later as input in the scheduling and loading
problems. The disturbance period is the time interval at which
dpi > 0 or CPi – PDi. The RFID or bar code is important to detect
dpi and CPi values. The previous ﬁve parameters can be converted
to bin size units if the detection of each part is not possible. In this
case, the bar code or RFID tag can be attached to each bin. In this
study, we assume that there is no any disturbance for the delivery
of the train. The disturbances can only occur in the assembly line.
This means that PDi is not affected by disturbances. In the case that
early loading is not used, the planned number of delivered parts is
equal to the expected demand in previous train cycles. Another
possibility for that equivalence is that disturbances occur in
bottleneck periods of demand.
In the case of disturbances, the term CPi  PDi + dpi in the pre-
vious equation can be with a positive or a negative sign depending
on the following factors:
 The possibility of using early loading: if early loading is used the
term tends to be negative
 The time of disturbances: if they happen just after peak-
demand period, the extra material resulted from early loading
is consumed. Therefore, the sign in this case is based on the
nature of disturbances.
 The nature of disturbances: defective parts make it positive
while delays caused by line stoppage or machine breakdown
make it negative.
In the case of machine breakdown in a station, it is expected
that the stations before that station have consumed parts more
than the stations after it. Therefore it is expected that the ﬁrst
group of stations have lower line-side inventory. So its probability
for starvation increases. In the following three sections, routing,
scheduling, and loading problems, specially designed to be suitable
for dynamic planning, are presented.
4. Fixed routing and effect of early loading
In the case of dynamic material ﬂow control, there are two main
advantages for ﬁxed routing:
1. Making planning easier: after resequencing, for example, some
tugger trains are in the supermarket area while others are still
in their routes. If variable routing is to be done, a plan must take
into consideration these two groups of trains and assign each
train to the right stations. This complicates the planning
process.
2. Providing some extra train capacity that is useful to absorb the
effect of sudden increases in demand in some cycles.
Although the stations demand is very dynamic, in the practice
sometimes the routes are ﬁxed, where certain colors are used to
determine certain routes. To maintain a certain probability of
capacity ﬁll rate (d), the maximum permitted average demand of
stations in the cell must be determined. Capacity ﬁll rate, or simply
ﬁll rate, in this study refers to the probability of providing the cell
with all the needed bins. In this study, ﬁll rate depends only on the
capacity of the train. The ﬁll rate for all the cycles in the shift can be
obtained by multiplying the ﬁll rate for each cycle. Low ﬁll rate
causes high level of workstation starvation.
So if early loading is not used, it is possible to write
di ¼ min
K
Di
; 1


ð2Þ
d ¼
Y
T
i¼1
di
ð3Þ
where K is the capacity of the tugger train feeding the cell, T is the
number of train cycles in the shift, and Di is the cell demand in the
train cycle i. The cycle demand for each station in the cell is for the
time interval from the arrival of the train at the station to the next
train arrival at the same station in the next train cycle. Later the ﬁll
rate is investigated if early loading is used. The average demand can
be controlled by determining the number of stations in the cell. But
before that we ﬁnd the ﬁll rate if the average demand is exactly as
the capacity of the train. In the calculations, we assume that early
loading will be done later.
Decreasing ﬁll rate increases stations starvation. This starvation
is different from another type of starvation which occurs when an
operator needs to wait for a workpiece to enter the upstream
boundary of his workstation area. Generally, the station starvation
is caused by the following points:
1. The total accumulated demand of all stations in the cell must
always be less than or equal to the capacity of the train multi-
plied by the number of train cycles.
2. In the case of early loading, for each station the maximum line-
side inventory (MLSI) must not exceed the capacity of the area
beside the station.
3. In the case of traditional kanban system, the number of kanban
affects the starvation probability
The previous ﬁrst point is related to the ﬁll rate. If any of the
two constraints in
the ﬁrst
two points were not
realized,
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
113


--- SAYFA 5 ---
workstation starvation occurs. The effect of MLSI can be negligible
if the number of stations is high. This is because there are a lot of
chances to make early loading without exceeding MLSI.
Suppose that the average cell demand per cycle is equal to the
capacity of the train (D = K), and assume that the demand of
stations for bins can be represented by Poisson distribution. dEL2
(i) represents the ﬁll rate for the current and previous routes
(i and i  1) if early loading is used. It can be obtained using
Eqs. (4) and (5)
dEL2ðiÞ ¼
X
Dði1Þ
j¼0
pmfðDði1Þj;Dði1ÞÞCDFðDþj;DÞ; D ¼ K 8i ¼ 2...T
ð4Þ
In Eq. (4), if i = 1, there is no previous route, so dEL2 (1) is determined
using Eq. (5)
dEL2ð1Þ ¼ CDFðD; DÞ;
D ¼ K
ð5Þ
where
pmf(k, k) = Pr(X = k) is probability mass function
CDF(k, k) = Pr(X 6 k) is cumulative distribution function
In Eq. (4), the term ‘‘D(i  1)’’ represents the total average cell
demand for bins in all the cycles of the train before the current ‘i’
cycle. Because D = K, the term also represents the total capacity
of the train cycles before the current one. So if the total actual
demand
in
the
train
cycles
before
the
current
cycle
is
‘‘D(i  1)  j’’, then the previous cycle will be feasible (without
starvation). For the current train cycle to be feasible, the demand
for parts in it must be at maximum ‘‘D + j’’. That means that any
savings represented by ‘j’ in the bins demand (consumption) in
the previous train cycle will be advantageous for the current train
cycle because of the early loading principle. The probability of that
can be estimated using the second term in the right side of the
equation which is ‘‘CDF(D + j, D)’’. All the possible values of ‘j’ are
taken into consideration. So the equation is to estimate the
probability that both the current and the previous train cycle are
feasible, and this feasibility is called ﬁll rate.
It was found using simulation that dEL(i) which is the ﬁll rate for
routes from 1 to i can be estimated as in Eq. (6)
dELðiÞ ¼ dEL2ð1Þi
dEL2ðiÞ
D ¼ K
ð6Þ
So the ﬁll rate for all the routes is
dELðTÞ ¼ dEL2ð1ÞTdEL2ðTÞ
D ¼ K
ð7Þ
It was found using simulation that the effect of the number of
routes is very small when ﬁll rate is high. So ﬁll rate is almost
independent
from
the
number
of
cycles.
This
fact
makes
calculations easier. Using simulation, it was found when ﬁll rate is
high that:
dEL ﬃCDFðK; DÞ
K  D
ð8Þ
That means that the ﬁll rate depends only on the capacity of the
train and the average cell demand. Later in this paper, Eq. (10) will
be obtained from Eq. (8) to ﬁnd the number of stations in the cell for
a desired level of ﬁll rate. Fig. 1 shows how the values obtained
using simulation and the values obtained using Eq. (8) approaches
each other when the ﬁll rate is high. The two lines are almost the
same in the right side of the ﬁgure. The data used to obtain this ﬁg-
ure was the following: there are 10 workstations each of which has
an average demand of 2 bins per train cycle, and there are 10 train
cycles in the shift. The demand is assumed to be Poisson distributed
for all the stations. To obtain the simulation line, 20,000 randomly
generated instances were used, where the average value for the ﬁll
rate is used in Fig. 1. Eq. (9) was used to check the feasibility of a
given instance containing the detailed demand of a group of
workstations.
X
N
s¼1
dst 6 tK
8t ¼ 1 . . . T
ð9Þ
where dst is the demand of station s for bins in the train cycle t.
The probability of feasibility based on Eq. (9) is the ﬁll rate.
Increasing the number of train cycles will decrease the ﬁll rate.
The ‘Estimated’ line is obtained using Eq. (8). The data previously
mentioned was altered several times and in each time the same
behavior shown in Fig. 1 occurs.
Since Eq. (8) ignores the effect of the number of train cycles,
using simulation Table 1 shows the difference between the
obtained ﬁll rate assuming two cases. In the ﬁrst one, the number
of train cycles equals 1, and in the second one the number of train
cycles equals 10. This difference is obtained by subtracting the two
values in the two cases and dividing the result by the value in the
second case. The effect of the number of the train cycles decreases
when the ﬁll rate increases. Fig. 1 and Table 1 show the accuracy of
Eq. (8).
So to estimate the number of stations (N) supplied by the same
train, we use
K P F1
dEL;
X
N
i¼1
di
 
!
K  D
ð10Þ
where di is the average cycle demand for station i, and F1 is the CDF
inverse. The maximum value of N without breaking the previous
constraint is found. N is the maximum value that does not break
constraint (10). The transportation and loading/unloading times
must be considered in the determination of TCT. The summation
of these times for all the stations increases when the number of sta-
tions increases. This means that TCT must be increased and hence di
increases. So the values of di are recalculated every time the number
of stations is changed. The demand can be based on the minimum
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Fill rate
K-D
Estimated
Simulation
Fig. 1. The difference between the results of Eq. (8) and the results of simulation.
Table 1
Effect of number of train cycles per ﬁll rate.
K  D
Fill rate when there are
10 train cycles (%)
Difference between ﬁll rates when there
are 1 and 10 train cycles (%)
1
36.38
75.42
2
53.17
35.02
3
66.76
16.83
4
78.60
7.53
5
86.04
3.32
6
90.64
1.66
7
94.47
0.71
8
96.20
0.31
9
97.63
0.11
10
98.71
0.03
11
99.25
0.02
114
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119


--- SAYFA 6 ---
possible TCT for the given number of stations. This is because the
priority is to decrease the number of tugger trains as much as
possible. This means that in the peak periods of demand, TCT must
be the minimum possible one to be able to provide the needed cell
demand using the maximum possible capacity without waiting in
the supermarket area.
The cell can be supplied by a central supermarket or by decen-
tralized supermarkets. One decentralized supermarket may feed
several assembly lines. However, sometimes one decentralized
supermarket supplies just part of the assembly line (Emde &
Boysen, 2012b; Emde et al., 2012). In the case of using a central
supermarket or a decentralized supermarket feeding more than
one assembly line, we use a different approach from those found
in the literature. The serpentine routes method used in Golz
et al. (2012) is not very effective in the case of using ﬁxed routes
since it results in high level of underutilization of tugger trains.
Its philosophy is that the train must feed the whole assembly line
and not just a group of stations inside it for many advantages sta-
ted in Golz et al. (2012). Fig. 2 compares the serpentine routes
method and our method of routing. The stations in the solid line
belong to the same cell. The stations in the dotted line belong to
another cell. In the ﬁrst method, the ﬁrst and third assembly lines
are supplied by the same train in the same train cycle, while the
second and third assembly lines are supplied by another train in
another. On the other hand in our method, two stations of the sec-
ond assembly line are supplied by a train while the rest of stations
are supplied by another train. So in this study the assembly line
can be supplied by more than one tugger train. This is more appro-
priate in the case of ﬁxed routing. This method is more ﬂexible and
enhances the utilization of the tugger train but can lead to trafﬁc
jam of the trains if there is more than one train in a narrow aisle.
In the case of using a decentralized supermarket feeding just part
of the assembly line, routing is simpler. In the two cases, the rout-
ing is as follows: just start from the ﬁrst station and go until the
ﬁnal possible station while keeping the constraint in Eq. (10) in
mind. When reaching the last station in the cell, begin a new cell
starting from the station after it and continue in the same way.
5. Scheduling
In the period just after disturbances, there are two main special
factors for the scheduling process:
1. It must consider the size of the current line-side inventory. MLSI
resulted from scheduling plus the line-side inventory remaining
from previous period must not exceed the maximum capacity
of the space near the stations.
2. More attention is paid for the capacity of tugger trains, where
sometimes, the train capacity is still not enough even after
using early loading. So scheduling process must take into
consideration that the loading problem that will be conducted
later is feasible regarding the accumulated stations demand.
So high ﬁll rate should be guaranteed.
The ﬁrst factor is also in loading problem. The objective function
of scheduling is minimizing the number of train cycles and
possibility of early loading. The maximum train capacity and the
maximum capacity of the space near the stations must be taken
into consideration. Minimizing the number of cycles reduces the
efforts and the trafﬁc jam in the facility, while minimizing the
probability of early loading reduces the inventory holding costs.
The following parameters and variable are used:
MC is the minimum possible TCT minus 1 (represented in SCT
unit).
TSC is the total number of station cycles in the shift
xij ¼
1; if there is a train cycle that covers the stations cycles from i to j
0; otherwise

dku is the demand (in bins unit) of station k during the station
cycle u
M is the maximum capacity of the area beside stations
wi is the weight of the term i in the objective function
The minimum possible TCT is based on the total needed time for
train transportation and loading and unloading of bins beside the
stations and in the supermarket area. In determining MC, we used
‘‘minus one’’ to make the equations simpler. MC represents, in
station cycle time unit, the difference between the ﬁrst and the last
station cycles covered by one train cycle. For the estimation of dku,
for a group of stations belonging to the same assembly line if the
station cycle u for a station k is s, then the associated u for the sta-
tion k + 1 is s + 1. This is because it takes one SCT for a workpiece to
move from the station k to the station k + 1. Table 1 shows the
associated u values for different stations and cycles. Any column
in the table represents the cycles in which the demand of the same
workpiece take places on different stations. As it is obvious, even
when u = s + 3 for the fourth station, dku is written not as dk(s+3)
but as dks. In other words, the station cycle number depends not
only on the time of the cycle but also on the station number (see
Table 2).
(a) Routes in literature 
(b) Routes in this study 
Fig. 2. Two ways for routing.
Table 2
Stations demand representation method.
k (station number)
Station cycles
u = s
u = s + 1
u = s + 2
1
s
s + 1
s + 2
2
s + 1
s + 2
s + 3
3
s + 2
s + 3
s + 4
4
s + 3
s + 4
s + 5
dku
dks
dk(s+1)
dk(s+2)
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
115


--- SAYFA 7 ---
The model is as follows:
Objective function
min w1
X
TSCMC
i¼1
X
TSC
j¼iþMC
yþ
ij þ w2
X
TSCMC
i¼1
X
TSC
j¼iþMC
xij
þ w3
X
TSCMC
i¼1
X
TSC
j¼iþMC
xij
X
N
k¼1
X
j
u¼i
dku
ð11Þ
Subject To
xij
X
j
u¼i
dku 6 M
8i ¼ 1; . . . ; TSC  MC;
8j ¼ i þ MC; . . . ; TSC;
8k ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð12Þ
xij
X
N
k¼1
X
j
u¼i
dku yþ
ij þy
ij ¼ K 8i ¼ 1...TSCMC; 8j ¼ iþMC...TSC
ð13Þ
X
IMC
i¼1
X
I
j¼iþMC
xij
X
N
k¼1
X
j
u¼i
dku 
X
N
k¼1
ak 6 K
X
IMC
i¼1
X
I
j¼iþMC
xij 8I ¼ MCþ1...TSC
ð14Þ
X
jMC
i¼1
xij ¼
X
TSC
v¼jþ1þMC
xjþ1;v
8j ¼ MC þ 1; . . . ; TSC  MC
ð15Þ
X
TSC
j¼1þMC
x1j ¼ 1
ð16Þ
X
TSCMC
i¼1
xiTSC ¼ 1
ð17Þ
xij ¼ 0 or 1; yþ
ij ;y
ij P 0 8i ¼ 1;...;TSCMC; 8j ¼ iþMC;...;TSC
ð18Þ
Appropriate weights for the objective function terms can be deter-
mined by management staff according to the importance of mini-
mizing inventory holding costs and the number of cycles. The ﬁrst
term in the objective function is to minimize the possibility of early
loading in loading problem. This objective is important to minimize
the inventory holding cost because early loading increases the aver-
age line-side inventory. The second term is to decrease the number
of train cycles. The third term is to guarantee that there is no over-
lap in the cycles. Constraint (12) is to guarantee that demand does
not exceed the capacity of area beside stations. Constraint (13) is to
deﬁne the variable y+
ij used to minimize the possibility of early
loading. When y+
ij is larger than zero, it means that the demand is
more than the capacity for certain train cycle, and that means the
necessity for early loading. In the objective function y+
ij is put
because the objective is reduce it. On the other hand, if y
ij is larger
than zero, it means that the capacity is more than the demand.
Constraint (14) is to prepare for early loading in the next section
where it guarantees that early loading will be feasible regarding
the accumulated demand constraint. The current line-side inven-
tory for parts k (ak) computed in Eq. (1) has been taken into con-
sideration. In the case that there are some train capacity problems
(not very high ﬁll rate), constraint (14) will make the model infea-
sible. So it can be rewritten in the same way of constraint (13), and
that is using goal programming to make the constraint soft.
Constraint (15) is to guarantee that all the station cycles demand
is fulﬁlled. If a certain train cycle for the station cycles i to j is cho-
sen in the solution, there must be a new train cycle starting from
the station cycle j + 1. Together with constrains (16) and (17), the
fulﬁlling of cycle demands are guaranteed by using constraint
(15). Constraints (16) and (17) are to guarantee that there is an
initial train cycle covering the ﬁrst station cycle, and a ﬁnal train
cycle to cover the last station cycle demand. Without these two
constraints, all variables xij will be zeroes.
To show the effect of the weight of each term in the objective
function, a simple example is presented in Table 3, where the 1’s
represent the demand for bins in the station cycles. For the ﬁrst
station, there was no any demand until the 17th station cycle
because the station has some parts from the previous shift. Only
the station cycles in which the demand occurs were shown. In
the real life, the numbers of station cycles and stations are usually
larger. In the example, it was assumed that MC = 8, M = 4, and
K = 6. Moreover, ak = 2 for all the stations.
The third term in the objective function can be multiplied by a
very small number because it is only to guarantee that there is no
extra number of train cycles. For the ﬁrst and second terms, the
results depend on the value that is multiplied by each term, where
the results are as in Table 4.
As in the ﬁrst scenario if the weight is zero, there is no penalty if
the demand is more than the capacity of the train. In this case the
penalty will only be for the number of the cycles of the train.
Therefore, there are only two cycles, and the demand for the train
is more than its capacity by 1 bin in the ﬁrst cycle and 6 bins in the
second cycle. Because ak = 2 for all the stations, the solution is still
feasible, but the line side inventory size will be deviated from its
initial one. In the second scenario the weight for the ﬁrst term
was set to be 1, and there are three cycles. There is still one cycle
with demand more than K. In the third scenario, the importance
of the ﬁrst term was set to be very high on the expense of the num-
ber of train cycles, where there are 4 train cycles with no any cycle
with demand more than the capacity of train. The weights of the
ﬁrst two terms of the objective function are left for the decision
maker based on his/her judgment. Results were obtained using free
software called LP solve.
The scheduling and loading problems found in the literature
assume that there is no any disturbance. Moreover, the scheduling
problem in this study prepares for early loading considering the
current size of line side inventory. It guarantees that the loading
problem is feasible, where the scheduling problem is an input for
the loading problem. Ignoring this fact can lead to infeasible load-
ing problem which leads to workstation starvation. Without using
the signals about the real consumption of materials, a lot of prob-
lems can happen depending on the type and level of disturbance.
Rescheduling may not be problematic because it is a major change
that can be easily known by the material handlers using simpler
methods of information sharing. However, the effect of some prob-
lems in the quality of some parts can be gradually increased and
not be known or estimated by the material handlers except if sever
workstation starvation happens. The effect of machine breakdowns
or line stoppage for short times can be detected only if the line side
area is full with bins. It is important for the signals to be electroni-
cally sent for fast response by the material handling system. If the
current size of line side inventory is not known because the elec-
tronic signals are not used and if it is higher than the ideal safety
stock level, then the real needed capacity of the tugger train will
be less than the assumed one. This will not make a problem in
scheduling but must be considered in routing problem. However,
the problem will occur if the size of the current line side inventory
is lower than the ideal safety stock assuming that the scheduling
problem takes into consideration the safety stock level. This is
because the real needed capacity will be higher than the assumed
one.
In the case that the electronic signals are not used, the planner
has two strategies. The ﬁrst one is to assume that the line side
inventory is zero. Usually, the safety stock should not be used
except if it is very necessary in some bottleneck periods where
the shortage of material will occur. Usually to cover such a
116
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119


--- SAYFA 8 ---
shortage, some emergency tugger trains routes are used. The prob-
lem for these tugger trains is that if the real line side inventory is
not zero is that they add cost which is not necessary and may
result in excessive material accumulation beside the stations. The
second strategy is to assume that the current line side inventory
is equal to the ideal safety stock level. Suppose that in normal
situations that the system suffers from 10% probability of worksta-
tions starvation if the safety stock is needed. If that system does
not use the electronic signals to detect the depletion of all the
safety stock, then the system will suffer from 10% probability of
workstations starvation.
6. Loading problem
The objective function in this problem is minimizing the
deviation between the line-side inventory and ideal safety stock
levels. The model will minimize the total inventory holding costs.
In the case that sudden large demand quantities higher than the
capacity of the train are required in the ﬁrst few cycles and they
cannot be accommodated by early loading, emergency train
routes can be used. This case is not considered in the loading
problem below. So we assume that the system can accommodate
the peak demand caused by disturbances without the need for
the emergency routes.
The following variable and parameter are used
est is the difference between the actual line-side inventory and
bs
xst is the decision variable which represents the number of
delivered bins for station s in the train cycle t.
If there is no early loading, xst and dst will be identical. The
model is as follows:
Objective function
min
X
N
s¼1
X
T
t¼1
jestj
ð19Þ
Constraints
X
N
s¼1
xst 6 K
8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T
ð20Þ
X
t
t0¼1
xst0 P
X
t
t0¼1
dst0  as
8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T; s ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð21Þ
X
t
t0¼1
xst0 
X
t
t0¼1
dst0 þ dst þ as 6 M
8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T;
s ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð22Þ
X
t
t0¼1
xst0 
X
t
t0¼1
dst0 þ as  bs ¼ est
8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T;
s ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð23Þ
xst is positive integer
8t ¼ 1; . . . ; T;
s ¼ 1; . . . ; N
ð24Þ
Constraint (20) is to guarantee that the capacity of the train is not
exceeded. Constraint (21) guarantees that the accumulated deliv-
ered number of bins is at least as the accumulated demand. In the
same constraint, the size of line-side inventory at the moment of
disturbance is taken into consideration. This inventory is also con-
sidered in constraint (22) which guarantees that the MLSI does
not exceed the maximum capacity of the area beside stations. The
demand of the station is added to the left hand side because the
demanded bin(s) will be delivered and stay near the station for at
least a moment. So there must be a capacity for that. The value of
deviation stated before is deﬁned in constraint (23) to be used in
the objective function. To represent the absolute value for the
variable est, some changes are added to the objective function and
constraints, where
est ¼ eþ
st  e
st
jestj ¼ eþ
st þ e
st
eþ
st;e
st P 0
So the objective function is rewritten as:
min
X
N
s¼1
X
T
t¼1
eþ
st þ e
st
ð25Þ
Constraint (23) is rewritten as
X
t
t0¼1
xst0 
X
t
t0¼1
dst0 þas bs ¼eþ
st e
st 8t ¼ 1;...;T; s ¼ 1;...;N
ð26Þ
7. Results and analysis
This section concentrates mainly on the effect of using the
dynamic control of material ﬂow and compares it to the traditional
demand-oriented and kanban systems. In demand-oriented system
a complete failure is expected due to the fact that the accuracy of
future expectations about demand is deteriorated after distur-
bances especially in the case of resequencing. So we concentrate
more on comparing our system to kanban system.
To compare the system in this study to kanban system in the
case of high level of ﬁll rate, Table 5 shows the ﬁll rate for the
two systems. The effect of the current line-side inventory was
neglected. K values were chosen so that ﬁll rate is greater than or
equal to 99%. Actually the difference comes from the use of early
loading. Usually early loading is used in demand-oriented system
but it is not appropriate in the case of disturbances. So it is used
in our approach. Early loading makes the system almost indepen-
dent from the number of cycles. It is obvious that the system pro-
posed in this study outperforms the demand-oriented and kanban
systems.
Eq. (24) is to ﬁnd ddiff which is the difference between the two
systems in terms of ﬁll rate.
ddiff ¼ CDFðK; DÞ  CDFðK; DÞT
ð27Þ
Another direction to investigate the effect of using our approach is
to examine the effect of using ﬁxed routes on the underutilization of
Table 3
Stations demand for bins during the station cycles.
Station
Station cycles
1
11
12
14
17
18
21
25
33
34
35
38
40
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
3
1
1
1
4
1
1
1
1
5
1
1
1
1
1
Table 4
Results for different weights of the ﬁrst term in the objective function.
Weight
Train cycle number
1
2
3
4
0
7 (1–12)a
12 (13–40)
1
7 (1–12)
6 (13–25)
6 (26–40)
10
6 (1–11)
5 (12–20)
2 (21–30)
6 (31–40)
a D(i  j) means that the train cycle covers the station cycles from ‘i’ until ‘j’ and
the demand is ‘D’ bins in this cycle.
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
117


--- SAYFA 9 ---
trains. We plot the (K  D)/D value found by Eq. (28) against D.
The nominator represents the extra needed capacity higher than
the average cell demand. If this value is so large compared to the
average cell demand, the underutilization of trains is high. Fig. 3
shows the results for dEL = 99%.
K  D
D
ﬃF1ðdEL; DÞ  D
D
ð28Þ
It is clear from Fig. 3 that using ﬁxed routes for low level of demand
(number of bins) affects severely the underutilization of trains.
However, when the average demand is high, the level of utilization
is enhanced. In the case that there are only some few stations in the
cell, there is a probability that MLSI affects the results when
MLSI > M, and hence the performance of early loading will not only
depends on the accumulated demand of stations but also on the
MLSI value. This is because there are only few possibilities for early
loaded quantity which may be added to the already large demanded
quantity in a certain cycle. However, from the ﬁgure above it is not
recommended to use ﬁxed routes for the cell with small number of
stations because in this case the demand will be low, and the low
cell demand increases the underutilization of tugger trains.
The example in scheduling problem shows the possibility of
getting different solutions based on the weights of the terms of
the objective function. These weights can be set by the decision
maker. The main trade-off is between reducing the number of train
cycles to decrease the material handling costs, and reducing the
probability of early loading and hence reducing the inventory
costs. For the loading problem which is necessary if the demand
in some train cycles is more than the capacity of the train, it is
important to know that the penalty of deviation of the current line
side inventory from its ideal level is measured in two dimensions:
the quantity (number of bins) and time (number of train cycles).
For example, if a deviation of one bin occurs in the ﬁrst two cycles,
the penalty will be 2 not 1.
8. Conclusion
In this study, an approach for dynamic material ﬂow control is
presented. This approach accommodates the effect of assembly
line disturbances on the ﬂuctuations of the stations demand for
materials and parts. We use a mix between the demand-oriented
and e-kanban systems. To ﬁt into this situation, ﬁxed routing is
presented
taking
into
account
the
effect
of
early
loading.
Moreover, scheduling and loading problems were investigated tak-
ing into consideration the current available amount of inventory
beside stations. The objectives considered are minimizing the
possibility of early loading, number of train cycles, and the devia-
tions from the ideal safety stock size. These objectives guarantee
minimizing inventory holding costs and trafﬁc jam of tugger trains.
The presented approach outperforms the kanban system by
enhancing the ﬁll rate and that means better utilization of tugger
trains capacity. This is especially obvious when the number of train
cycles in the shift increases, because the approach combining the
e-kanban with the demand–oriented system is independent from
the number of train cycles. This was found true using simulation
when the ﬁll rate is high. However, the underutilization level of
tugger trains increases when cell demand decreases. Future
research can focus on ﬁnding a suitable approach for routing in
the case that cells are with low demand for bins.
The methodology in this study can only be applied when the
workstations demand for parts is previously known with a good
level of accuracy if there is no any of disturbances in part of the
shift. This is usually found in mixed model assembly line.
Knowing the demand in advance absorbs the effect of dynamic
workstations demand using early loading. Another limitation is
the assumption of ﬁxed routes that have been found in some
facilities in the practice. However, in other facilities, management
decides to use ﬂexible routing in which new routes can be built
after the occurrence of the disturbance. The management can
apply the ﬁxed routing when workstations demand for bins is
relatively high and when the standardization of work is looked for.
References
Alnahhal, M., & Noche, B. (2015). A genetic algorithm for supermarket location
problem. Assembly Automation, 35(1), 122–127.
Babu, S. A. I., Pratap, S., Lahoti, G., Fernandes, K. J., Tiwari, M. K., Mount, M., et al.
(2014). Minimizing delay of ships in bulk terminals by simultaneous ship
scheduling, stockyard planning and train scheduling. Maritime Economics &
Logistics, 1–29.
Battini, D., Faccio, M., Persona, A., & Sgarbossa, F. (2009). Design of the optimal
feeding policy in an assembly system. International Journal of Production
Economics, 121(1), 233–254.
Battini, D., Gamberi, M., Persona, A., & Sgarbossa, F. (2015). Part-feeding with
supermarket in assembly systems: Transportation mode selection model and
multi-scenario analysis. Assembly Automation, 35(1), 149–159.
Baudin, M. (2004). Lean logistics: The nuts and bolts of delivering materials and goods.
New York: Productivity Press.
Bortolini, M., Ferrari, E., Gamberi, M., Manzini, R., & Regattieri, A. (2015). New
kanban model for tow-train feeding system design. Assembly Automation, 35(1),
128–136.
Boysen, N., & Bock, S. (2011). Scheduling just-in-time part supply for mixed-model
assembly lines. European Journal of Operational Research, 211(1), 15–25.
Boysen, N., Scholl, A., & Wopperer, N. (2012). Resequencing of mixed-model
assembly lines: Survey and research agenda. European Journal of Operational
Research, 216(3), 594–604.
Bozer, Y., & Ciemnoczolowski, D. (2013). Performance evaluation of small-batch
container delivery systems used in lean manufacturing – Part 1: System
stability and distribution of container starts. International Journal of Production
Research, 51(2), 555–567.
Table 5
Effect of early loading on ﬁll rate.
Da
Ka
Our system
Kanban system
dEL
a
da
T*=10
T = 15
T = 20
5
11
0.995
0.947
0.921
0.896
6
12
0.991
0.915
0.875
0.838
7
14
0.994
0.944
0.918
0.892
8
15
0.992
0.921
0.883
0.848
9
17
0.995
0.948
0.923
0.899
10
18
0.993
0.930
0.897
0.866
11
19
0.991
0.911
0.869
0.830
12
21
0.994
0.941
0.913
0.885
13
22
0.992
0.926
0.892
0.858
14
23
0.991
0.911
0.869
0.829
15
25
0.994
0.940
0.911
0.883
a D is average cell demand during the train cycle time, K is train capacity, d is ﬁll
rate, dEL is ﬁll rate if early loading is used, and T is number of the train cycles in the
shift.
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
(K-D)/D ratio
Total average demand of the cell (D)
Fig. 3. Effect of ﬁxed routing on underutilization of trains.
118
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119


--- SAYFA 10 ---
Caputo, A. C., & Pelagagge, P. M. (2011). A methodology for selecting assembly
systems feeding policy. Industrial Management & Data Systems, 111(1), 84–112.
Chakravarty, A. K., & Shtub, A. (1985). Balancing mixed model lines with in-process
inventories. Management Science, 31(9), 1161–1174.
Choi, W., & Lee, Y. (2002). A dynamic part-feeding system for an automotive
assembly line. Computers & industrial engineering, 43(1), 123–134.
Ciemnoczolowski, D. D., & Bozer, Y. A. (2013). Performance evaluation of small-
batch container delivery systems used in lean manufacturing–Part 2: Number
of Kanban and workstation starvation. International Journal of Production
Research, 51(2), 568–581.
Emde, S., & Boysen, N. (2012a). Optimally locating in-house logistics areas to
facilitate JIT-supply of mixed-model assembly lines. International Journal of
Production Economics, 135(1), 393–402.
Emde, S., & Boysen, N. (2012b). Optimally routing and scheduling tow trains for JIT
supply of mixed-model assembly lines. European Journal of Operational Research,
217(2), 287–299.
Emde, S., Fliedner, M., & Boysen, N. (2012). Optimally loading tow trains for JIT-
supply of mixed-model assembly lines. IIE Transactions, 44(2), 121–135.
Faccio, M. (2014). The impact of production mix variations and models varieties on
the parts-feeding policy selection in a JIT assembly system. The International
Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 72(1–4), 543–560.
Faccio, M., Gamberi, M., & Persona, A. (2013a). Kanban number optimization in a
supermarket warehouse feeding a mixed-model assembly system. International
Journal of Production Research, 51(10), 2997–3017.
Faccio, M., Gamberi, M., Persona, A., Regattieri, A., & Sgarbossa, F. (2013b). Design
and simulation of assembly line feeding systems in the automotive sector using
supermarket, kanbans and tow trains: A general framework. Journal of
Management Control, 24(2), 187–208.
Golz, J., Gujjula, R., Günther, H. O., Rinderer, S., & Ziegler, M. (2012). Part feeding at
high-variant mixed-model assembly lines. Flexible Services and Manufacturing
Journal, 24(2), 119–141.
Kilic, H. S., Durmusoglu, M. B., & Baskak, M. (2012). Classiﬁcation and modeling for
in-plant milk-run distribution systems. The International Journal of Advanced
Manufacturing Technology, 62(9–12), 1135–1146.
Klenk, E., Galka, S., & Günthner, W. A. (2012). Analysis of parameters inﬂuencing in-
plant milk run design for production supply. Proceedings of the International
Material Handling Research Colloquium, 25–28.
Macaskill, J. L. C. (1973). Computer simulation for mixed-model production lines.
Management Science, 20(3), 341–348.
Sarker, B. R., & Pan, H. (2001). Designing a mixed-model, open-station assembly line
using mixed-integer programming. Journal of the Operational Research Society,
545–558.
Smunt, T. L., & Perkins, W. C. (1985). Stochastic unpaced line design: review and
further experimental results. Journal of Operations Management, 5(3), 351–373.
Xiaobo, Z., & Ohno, K. (2000). Properties of a sequencing problem for a mixed model
assembly line with convey or stoppages. European Journal of Operational
Research, 124(3), 560–570.
M. Alnahhal, B. Noche / Computers & Industrial Engineering 85 (2015) 110–119
119
