

--- SAYFA 1 ---
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Pamukkale Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi 
 
Pamukkale University Journal of Engineering Sciences 
 
62 
 
A dynamic in-plant milk-run system via agent-based modelling 
Etmen tabanlı modelleme yöntemi ile tesis içi dinamik bir milk-run sistemi 
Yasemin Sevim1  
, Latife Görkemli Aykut 2*  
 
1Department of Industrial Engineering, Graduate School of Natural and Applied Sciences, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Türkiye. 
yasemin.sevim@std.yildiz.edu.tr 
2Department of Industrial Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Türkiye. 
lgorkemli@erciyes.edu.tr 
 
Received/Geliş Tarihi: 20.08.2024 
Accepted/Kabul Tarihi: 02.06.2025 
Revision/Düzeltme Tarihi: 26.05.2025 
doi: 10.5505/pajes.2025.39960 
Research Article/Araştırma Makalesi 
Abstract 
Öz 
Traditional vehicle routing problems aim to find a solution to minimize 
the total route cost under certain conditions. However, real-life 
problems consider different dynamic situations. One of the most 
common one is dynamic demand. To cope with the dynamism and 
management of its effects, such as unstable routes and route times, 
dynamic inventory turnovers are significant issues in in-plant 
transportation activities. The dynamic demand increases the dynamic 
movements within the facility. In this study, a milk-run model was 
developed to solve in-plant transportation problems under dynamic 
demand. The model was developed with an agent-based approach, 
which is an effective method in modeling complex and dynamic systems. 
The behavior of the model was analyzed with various scenarios through 
a sample case. As a result of the analysis, the efficiency of the model was 
shown. Based on the scenarios, considering performance measures such 
as average occupancy rate, average distance travelled, and average 
waiting time, a high number of trains with low train capacity suitable 
for the size of the system is recommended. 
Geleneksel araç rotalama problemleri, belirli koşullar altında toplam 
rota maliyetini en aza indirecek bir çözüm bulmayı amaçlamaktadır. 
Ancak gerçek hayattaki problemler farklı dinamik durumları dikkate 
almaktadır. Bunlardan en yaygın olanı talebin dinamik olmasıdır. 
Dinamizmin ve değişken rotalar ve rota süreleri, dinamik envanter 
devirleri gibi dinamizmin etkilerinin yönetimi ile başa çıkabilmek tesis 
içi taşıma faaliyetlerinde önemli bir konu olmaktadır. Dinamik talep, 
tesis içindeki hareketlerin değişkenliğini artırmaktadır. Bu çalışmada 
dinamik talep altında tesis içi taşımacılık problemlerini çözmek için bir 
milk-run modeli geliştirilmiştir. Model, karmaşık ve dinamik sistemlerin 
modellenmesinde etkili bir yöntem olan etmen tabanlı yaklaşımla 
geliştirilmiştir. Modelin davranışı örnek bir durum üzerinden çeşitli 
senaryolarla analiz edilmiş ve modelin etkinliği ortaya koyulmuştur. 
Senaryolara dayalı olarak, ortalama doluluk oranı, ortalama mesafe ve 
ortalama bekleme süresi performans ölçütleri dikkate alındığında, 
sistemin büyüklüğüne uygun düşük tren kapasitesine sahip yüksek 
sayıda tren önerilmektedir. 
Keywords: Milk-Run system, Agent-Based modelling, In-Plant, 
Dynamic systems. 
Anahtar kelimeler: Milk-Run Sistemi, Etmen tabanli modelleme, 
Tesis içi, Dinamik sistemler. 
1 Introduction 
The milk-run system concept is inspired by the milk 
distribution industry in United States. In this idea, while the 
number of distributors is limited, the number of customers is 
relatively high. In addition, milk distribution is done by cyclical 
tours. Distributors have two duties. These are, distributing full 
milk bottles and collecting empty bottles in a limited time [1]. 
Materials 
are 
distributed 
in 
standard 
routes 
within 
predetermined time intervals in the traditional milk-run 
systems. During the tour; the empty wagons are filled with 
materials in a central area (warehouse or supermarket) then 
the materials are distributed, the empty baskets are collected 
back from the stations, and the transport vehicles return to the 
starting area. In the distribution process, more than one basket 
or pallet is transported at the same time using train logic 
instead of a single-vehicle. Sadjadi et al. [1] mentioned that the 
milk-run system increases the logistics performance in 
assembly stations or other production areas. According to the 
authors, as a result of the implementation of the milk-run 
system, the effectiveness of the vehicles increases, the number 
of inventories decreases, the rate of inventories, and 
maintenance costs decrease, and there will be improvements in 
timely distribution. Domingo et al. [2] reported that by applying 
the milk-run system, the number of inventories could be 
                                                          
*Corresponding author/Yazışılan Yazar 
reduced by 50%. Hanson and Finnsgard [3] showed that when 
milk-run train logic is used instead of forklifts, the area needed 
for inventories decreased by 67%, non-value-added works 
decreased by 20%, and distribution time decreased by 52%.  
In the milk-run system, many interrelated decision problems 
should be solved for planning and controlling in-plant 
transportation activities. These problems are classified as 
follows according to Emde and Boysen [4];  
• 
Layout problem; it includes problems such as determining 
the location of supermarkets and the placement of materials 
in supermarkets, 
• 
Routing problem; it includes determining the number of 
trains and deciding on which route the trains use, 
• 
Scheduling problem; this problem aims to find the most 
appropriate delivery times for the trains. Each train has a 
tour time. The tour times affect the number of tours. Tour 
times include both loading and unloading times at the 
stations, 
• 
Loading problem; the purpose of this problem is to 
determine which type of material is transported in which 
quantities by the relevant train each cycle. Within the scope 
of this problem, it is aimed to minimize the amount of 
inventory in the stations, but the stations are not allowed to 
run out of inventory. Each train has a limited capacity. 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
63 
 
In the literature there are various studies considering in plant 
milk run systems. In some of them authors developed 
mathematical models, heuristic, and metaheuristic algorithms 
to obtain optimal solutions to the problem [1]-[14]. Besides 
optimization model simulation is one of most studied 
approaches in plant milk run studies in the literature especially 
in complex problems. Choi and Lee [15] did extensive dynamic 
planning by dealing with routing, scheduling, and loading 
problems together. In the scenario, the mixed-model assembly 
line was fed from a single warehouse. The feeding state of the 
assembly line was handled in two different ways; statically and 
dynamically. The amount of material consumption was fixed in 
the assembly line in the static condition, and the consumption 
amount was estimated dynamically in the dynamic state. The 
study aimed to minimize deviations in delivery time. The 
traditional vehicle routing method was used to solve the 
problem, and the study was simulated with real data. Faccio et 
al. [16] developed an integrated approach for the automotive 
industry, where the transportation between the mixed-model 
assembly line and the supermarket was carried out by trains. 
The problem was divided into short term and long term. 
Transportation problems that occurred while transporting 
materials with the trains were considered in the short term and 
analyzed by developing different dynamic simulation models. 
The optimization of the number of the Kanban was analyzed 
statically in the long term. Bae, Evans, and Summers [17] 
studied the effect of using a milk-run system in in-plant 
transportation with three simulation models. In the first 
scenario, a supermarket layout was determined horizontally, 
and in the second scenario the layout was analyzed with the 
vertical layout. In the study, the most suitable routes of 
supermarkets were compared. In the last scenario, the 
inventory demands of the stations were analyzed. Korytkowski 
and Karkoszka [18] proposed discrete-event simulation models 
for a milk-run system that feeds a traditional assembly line 
from a warehouse. The authors assumed that the milk-run 
system was already established in the production area and the 
routes and periods were already determined. The study aimed 
to analyze the inventory adequacy in stations, the usage of train 
operators, and assembly-line efficiency in various scenarios. 
Emde and Gendreau [19] discussed scheduling and loading 
problems for the train feeding the mixed-model assembly line. 
Guner et al. [20] analyzed the milk-run routing problem 
dynamically. Firstly, dynamic route plans were developed for 
the facilities and then simulated. In the second stage, the routes 
were determined by the stochastic time window dynamic 
programming method. In the last stage, a method with a time 
window was defined to increase the time-based performance of 
the milk-run delivery. Fedorko et al. [21] proposed a simulation 
model to identify critical failure points in a given delivery 
process based on the milk-run system. The model was 
developed in the Tecnomatix Plant Simulation program. 
According to the results obtained, a suitable solution was 
determined that would enable the whole process to operate 
more efficiently and reliably.  
According to the literature of in-plant milk-run routing 
problems, it can be said that while routing problems are given 
wide coverage, there are few studies seeking solutions to the 
milk-run system in a dynamic environment, which especially 
consider the routing, scheduling, and loading processes 
simultaneously. However, in real life, the problem mostly has to 
be solved under various dynamics. Therefore, it is important to 
consider these dynamics to obtain effective solutions. The main 
contributions of this study are listed as follows: (i) to develop 
an in-plant milk-run system via agent based modelling focusing 
dynamic demand arrivals considering routing, scheduling, and 
loading problems simultaneously (ii) to develop a decision 
support system to the managers handling dynamic routes and 
periods for milk-run trains efficiently (iii) to eliminate required 
assumptions of analytic methods for solving the in-plant milk-
run problem. In the developed model, production is done 
according to the dynamic demand. Therefore, the dynamism in 
the production amount also affects the amount of material to be 
transported and the route times [21]. Analytical methods are 
often not suffient to handle these dynamisms. Even if they are 
sufficient to resolve the system it may be necessary to 
restructure the all operations in the system according to every 
dynamic change. This is generally not applicable. In this study, 
the dynamic system based on this cyclical expedition is 
modeled using agent-based modelling approach and the 
effectiveness of the model is investigated with various 
scenarios. The proposed approach has a structure that 
constantly monitors dynamic changes and offers effective 
solutions to the managers. Agent based modeling is a promising 
approach for dynamic in-plant milk-run problems, since the 
nature of the problem is complex, dynamic, and large-scale. To 
the best of the authors knowledge, there are a few agent based 
studies in the literature on milk run systems. Kluska and 
Pawlewski [22] describes methodology of milk-run system 
design and implementation for intralogictic systems. They built 
a hybrid model combination of the discrete event and agent 
based simulation. The study provides methodology in general 
and the future work was planned as development of the tools 
used and implementation of the approach. Aragão et al. [23] 
evaluated different collobration strategies for dynamic vehicle 
routing in milk-run, where vehicles are assigned to picking up 
components and parts from Original Equipment Manufacturer 
suppliers. In the approach agents detect the unexpected traffic 
congestions, and then decide about the transference of tasks to 
other vehicles. The paper evaluates two strategies: the number 
of auxiliary vehicles, and the negotiation of tasks between 
vehicles. In the application regular vehicles assigned to picking 
up tasks, plus auxiliary vehicles, the excess of tasks allocate to 
regular vehicles is transfer to them if necesssary. 
In the next section of the paper, the concept of the agent-based 
modelling is described. In section 3, the developed model is 
explained in detail and the analyses are given in section 4. In the 
last section conclusions and future works are presented. 
2 Agent-based modelling 
The milk-run vehicle routing problem discussed in this study 
was solved by using an agent-based modeling approach, which 
is a successful method for modeling and analyzing dynamic and 
complex systems. In literature, in various kinds of routing 
problems, agent-based models are used and effective results 
are obtained [24]-[31]. 
An agent is an active object capable of perceiving, reasoning, 
and acting. It is assumed that agents have the knowledge and 
that they have the mechanisms to use it. Another assumption is 
that they can communicate. This communication takes place in 
the form of receiving and sending messages. Agents 
communicate to improve their own goals or the goals of the 
system they are in. Some protocols and mechanisms are used to 
coordinate agents. One of these mechanisms is the auction 
mechanism, which is used, especially in systems with a high 
number of agents. The auction mechanism, which has been 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
64 
 
successfully used in many computer science applications, 
provides a relatively easy-to-analyze solution environment for 
the researcher in problem-solving. In the auction mechanism, 
there is usually an agreement between; one leading the auction 
and the one that offered the bid. The auction is held when the 
auction owner wants to sell a product at the highest price while 
the participants want to buy it at the lowest possible price. In 
agent-based modeling, it is possible to obtain effective solutions 
for the system addressed by using this mechanism [32]. The 
auction mechanism is used in the agent-based model developed 
in this study. The details of the model are explained below. 
3 Agent-based modelling for the dynamic In-
plant milk-run problem 
A production environment based on dynamic demand causes 
changes in inventory requirements and in-plant distribution 
amounts and routes. Therefore, the traditional periodic milk-
run routing is not sufficient in these kinds of environments. 
This study aimed to find an efficient solution to this dynamic 
planning problem using agent-based modelling. In the 
developed model, a manager agent provides the coordination 
between the station agents and train agents. 
Behaviors of the station, train, and manager agents are defined 
and various duties are assigned to the agents. Within the model, 
the mechanisms are developed to reduce the waiting times of 
the stations, to increase the occupancy rate, and determine the 
departure times of the trains appropriately. Then, the 
effectiveness of the mechanisms is analyzed and discussed with 
various experimental scenarios. The model was developed in 
AnylogicTM. 
Assumptions of the model, the agents and their mechanisms are 
explained in detail in the following. 
3.1 
Assumptions of the model 
The model was developed by considering the following 
assumptions; 
• 
There is a sufficient inventory area for raw materials 
at the stations, 
• 
The raw material consumption and production rates 
of the stations are equal, 
• 
Each train only stops at the stations assigned and then 
returns to the warehouse, 
• 
There are no route conflicts, 
• 
The loading time of the materials in the warehouse on 
trains is not considered. 
3.2 
Agents in the model 
Statecharts defining the agent’s behaviors and features of the 
agents are as follows. 
3.2.1 Station agent 
If there is a demand in the system, each station agent produces 
according to its production time. When the raw material 
amount reaches the reorder point, it informs the manager agent 
of the inventory requirement. If there is not any raw material, 
the station agent stops production. 
Figure 1 shows the statechart of the station agent. The agent has 
two states, such as "noDemand" and "production". When the 
amount of demand in the system is greater than zero, the agent 
goes to the “production” state and begins producing according 
to its production time. During the production, the current raw 
material amount and the demand value decreases and the 
production amount increases. When the inventory is equal to 
the reorder point, the required quantity and times are 
calculated by the station. Then, the manager agent is informed. 
 
Figure 1. The statechart of the station agent. 
3.2.2 Manager agent 
The manager agent coordinates the other agents. Duties of the 
manager agent; 
• 
Calling for bids, 
• 
Evaluating bids, 
• 
Assigning trains to the stations, 
• 
Informing the related agents of the auction 
results. 
Figure 2 shows the statechart of the manager agent. If there is a 
message received from any station and if there is at least one 
train waiting in the warehouse, the agent goes to the "callBid" 
state. In the “callBid” state, the agent sends a message to the 
train agents for preparing a bid. When all trains in the 
warehouse send a bid, then it goes to the “auction” state. In the 
“auction” state, the bids are evaluated and the relevant station 
is assigned to the selected train. The agent informs the results 
of the evaluation to the train agent and goes to the “available” 
state. 
 
Figure 2. The statechart of the manager agent. 


--- SAYFA 4 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
65 
 
3.2.3 Train agent 
The train agent is responsible for supplying the raw material 
requirements of the stations. The train distributes the materials 
to the stations that were assigned with the manager agent’s 
decision. The duties of the train agent; 
• 
Preparing and sending bids to the manager agent 
• 
Deciding to distribution time 
• 
Distributing raw materials to the assigned 
stations 
Figure 3 shows the statechart of the train agent. The 
“inTheWarehouse" state is the initial state for the train agent. 
The train that finishes the distribution process returns to the 
warehouse and waits there. When the manager agent is in the 
state of "callBid", it calls the train agent to prepare a bid, and 
the train agent goes to the "prepareBid" state. The prepared bid 
is sent to the manager instantly while in the "sendBid" state. 
The train agent periodically checks its departure time. If a train 
agent decides to depart, it becomes "onTheRoad" state. In the 
state, the agent informs the manager agent about its departure 
and starts distribution. After the distribution is over, it becomes 
the "inTheWarehouse" state. The train agent informs the 
manager agent about its availability. 
 
Figure 3. The statechart of the train agent. 
3.3 
Protocol of the model 
The model protocol is explained in Figure 4. According to the 
protocol; the station agent goes to the “production” state for 
production when there is demand in the system. In the state, 
each station, also calculates the required inventory amount and 
time by the inventory control mechanism. Then, these 
calculated data are transmitted to the manager agent. The 
manager agent goes to the “callBid” state when it gets the data. 
In this state, it calls the train agents to the auction. The train 
agent goes to “prepareBid” state by this call. Each available 
train prepares a bid to satisfy the required inventory for the 
relevant station. The train agent that prepares the bid goes to 
the "sendBid" state and notifies the manager agent about the 
bid. The manager agent, which receives the bids from all the 
trains in the warehouse, goes to the "auction" state. Bids are 
evaluated according to the bid evaluation and decision-making 
mechanism, and the relevant station is assigned to the train 
determined by the manager. The trains decide to depart 
according to the departure decision mechanism. The train, 
which departs and completes the distribution process, returns 
to the warehouse and then waits for new calls from the 
manager agent. 
 
 
Figure 4. Protocol of the model. 
3.4 
Mechanisms in the model 
It is aimed to reduce the waiting time for the station agent with 
the inventory control mechanism. In addition, the station agent 
determines the inventory requirement by this mechanism and, 
it informs the manager for the requirements. While the train 
agent prepares an offer for the relevant station with the bid 
preparation mechanism and informs the manager, the 
manager, who receives the bids, assigns the station to the 
relevant train with the bid evaluation mechanism. The train 
agent controls the departure status via departure mechanism 
which considers the occupancy rate and the on-time delivery 
status. The proposed approach concerns several mechanisms in 
order to gather an efficient dynamic milk-run system. 
The details of the mechanisms are described in the following 
sections. The parameters and variables used in the mechanisms 
are given below. 
Index 𝑖 is used for the train agent, and index 𝑗 is used for the 
station agent in the formulas.  
3.4.1 Parameters 
𝐷𝑗 
: 
The amount of demand that the jth station 
should meet, 
𝑉𝑗 
: 
Production time of one product at the jth 
station (minutes), 
𝐴𝑗 
: 
Reorder point of raw material of the jth 
station, 
𝐿𝑗 
: 
Inventory capacity of raw material of the jth 
station, 
𝑋𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠𝑡𝑗 : 
X coordinate of the jth station, 
𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠𝑡𝑗 : 
Y coordinate of the jth station, 
𝑋𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑡𝑟𝑖 : 
X coordinate of the ith train, 
𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑡𝑟𝑖 : 
Y coordinate of the ith train, 
k 
: 
Train speed, 
Inventory requirement 
information
Call for bids
Information 
of bids
Assignment 
information
Inventory requirement 
information
Call for bids
Information 
of bids
Delivery information
Station 
agent
Manager 
agent
Train 
agent


--- SAYFA 5 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
66 
 
𝑓 
: 
The time for a train to leave a full wagon at 
the station and pick up an empty wagon 
from the station. 
3.4.2 Variables 
𝑃𝑗 
: 
Production quantity of the jth station, 
𝑆𝑗 
: 
Raw material inventory amount of the jth 
station, 
𝑀𝑗 
: 
Demand of raw material amount of the jth 
station, 
𝐻𝑗: 
: 
The lead time of Mj of the jth station in order 
not to run out of inventory. 
𝑇𝑖𝑗 
: 
The time to leave raw materials at the jth 
station by the ith train 
𝑑𝑖𝑗 
: 
Distance between jth station and ith train 
𝐵𝑖 
: 
Bid value prepared by the ith train 
𝐶𝑖 
: 
Remaining raw material capacity of the ith 
train 
𝑛𝑖 
: 
Number of stations assigned to the ith train 
3.4.3 Inventory control mechanism 
The station agent has an internal transition when it is in the 
"production" state as seen in Figure 1. The transition is 
triggered by production time. 
When the transition is triggered, the following steps are 
performed; 
If (𝑆𝑗 > 0) 
  
Calculate  
𝑆𝑗 = 𝑆𝑗-1  
𝐷𝑗 = 𝐷𝑗-1 
   
 
Pj = Pj-1 
  
If (𝑆𝑗 = 𝐴𝑗) 
   
Calculate 
   
 
𝑀𝑗 = 𝐿𝑗 - 𝐴𝑗 
  
 
𝐻𝑗 = 𝐴𝑗 * 𝑉𝑗 
Request raw material from manager agent  
Inform 𝑀𝑗  and 𝐻𝑗 values to the manager agent 
3.4.4 Bid preparation mechanism 
If the following conditions are met, the manager agent goes to 
the “callBid” state from the “available” state. Then it asks for a 
bid from each train agent. 
• 
If there is at least one station requested for raw 
material, 
• 
If there is at least one train in the warehouse. 
When the ith train agent gets the call, then it goes to 
"prepareBid" state and calculates a bid value considering the 
following steps for the jth station auctioned by the manager. 
Then, each train in the warehouse informs the manager. 
Step 1 
: 
If  𝐶𝑖≥𝑀𝑗, go to step 2. Otherwise do not send 
bid to the manager, 
Step 2 
: 
If one station is assigned to the train, calculate  
𝑑𝑖𝑗 by Equation 1 considering rectilinear 
distance measure and 𝑇𝑖𝑗 by Equation 2. If more 
than one stations are assigned to the train,  𝑇𝑖𝑗  
is calculated by taking these stations into 
account. Stations are arranged from near to far 
to the supermarket, and calculations are made 
considering rectilinear measurements between 
the points. For example, if the 5th station is 
already assigned to the 2nd train and if a bid is 
calculated for the 7th station, 𝑇25 is calculated, 
then the distance between 5th station and 7th 
station is calculated (let’s call this measured 
distance ss) 𝑇27 will be 𝑇25 + 𝑠𝑠/𝑘+ 𝑓, 
Step 3 
: 
If 𝐻𝑗  - 𝑇𝑖𝑗 < 0, this means that the jth station will 
be late if it is assigned to the ith train. This check 
is also done for all stations assigned to the 
relevant train before. If there is no late station, 
send 𝑇𝑖𝑗 as the bid value. 
 
𝑑𝑖𝑗= |𝑋𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑡𝑟𝑖−𝑋𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠𝑡𝑗|
+ |𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑡𝑟𝑖−𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑑𝑠𝑡𝑗| 
(3) 
𝑇𝑖𝑗= 𝑑𝑖𝑗/𝑘+ 𝑓 
(4) 
3.4.5 Departure mechanism 
With this mechanism, each train in the warehouse does a 
capacity and lateness check every minute. This checks whether 
the remaining capacity values are equal to zero. If the 
remaining capacity is zero, the relevant train performs the 
distribution process and returns to the warehouse. After the 
capacity check, the train does the lateness check, which is 
explained in section 3.4.4, considering the all stations assigned 
to itself. If there is any late station, the train starts distribution 
regardless of the remaining capacity. 
3.4.6 Bid evaluation and decision making 
If all trains in the warehouse send bids, the manager agent goes 
to the "auction" state and evaluates the bids as follows; 
Step 1 : 
If there is no bid, assign the station to a train 
with sufficient capacity. If at least one train is 
sent a bid, sort the bids from biggest to smallest 
then go to step 2, 
Step 2 : 
Assign the station to the train which has sent the 
biggest bid value and inform the train. 
After the auction, the remaining capacity of the train, which the 
station is assigned, is updated. 
An illustrative example that can clarify the role of the auction 
mechanism in the proposed approach is given in the following. 
Considering the case, while the system is running, let us look at 
the system some intervals of time in order the see the steps of 
the algorithm. In this example scenario the levels of factors in 
Table 2 is considered as 2, 125, 250, 50, 0.5 respectively. 
The situation after the inventory level of the 8th station is 50 is 
as follows: 3rd station, 6th station, 9th station, and 10th station 
has requested raw material, and the inventory levels of them 
46, 41 42, 42. The stations are assigned to 2nd train. Both 1st 
train and 2nd train are in the warehouse.  
8th station requested raw material from the manager agent and 
informs the requested amount and time information as 100 and 
100 respectively. Manager agent asks for a bid from each train. 
Both 1st train and 2nd train send bid to the manager, bid values 
are 1.68, 4.321 respectively. 
Manager agent assigns the 8th station to 2nd train since it has 
sent the biggest bid value.  


--- SAYFA 6 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
67 
 
The advantages of auction mechanisms make them a powerful 
tool for several problems concern resource allocation, 
especially in complex or competitive systems. Their ability to 
fairness (all participants have an equal opportunity to 
compete), easy decision making, dynamic adaptability 
(resources can be allocated in real time based changing 
conditions efficiently), competition (all participants offer their 
best possible price) make them promising in real life dynamic 
problems.  
3.5 
Scenario assumptions 
The effectiveness of the developed model was tested on a 
hypothetical system. In this milk-run system, there are 10 
stations that work independently of each other and identical 
trains that distribute raw materials to the stations.  
• 
The assumptions of the model are as follows, 
• 
Demands come to each station according to exponential 
distribution, 
• 
Train 
speeds 
are 
constant 
and 
the 
value 
is 
5 
kilometers/hour. Since the model base time unit is the 
minute, the train speed is taken as 83.33 meters/minute, 
• 
𝑓 is taken as 0.6 minutes, 
• 
The coordination of the warehouses (50,0) (meter, meter). 
Location coordination and production times of the stations are 
as in Table 1. 
Table 1. Location coordination and production time of each 
station. 
Stations 
Coordination of the station (X, 
Y)  
(meter, meter) 
Production time of 
the station 
(minute/piece) 
1 
(50, 10) 
2 
2 
(50, 15) 
3 
3 
(50, 20) 
1 
4 
(50, 25) 
5 
5 
(50, 30) 
2 
6 
(50, 35) 
2 
7 
(50, 40) 
4 
8 
(50, 45) 
2 
9 
(50, 50) 
1 
10 
(50, 55) 
2 
4 Experimental design 
The feasibility and efficiency of the proposed approach are 
demonstrated 
with 
several 
scenarios. 
Scenarios 
are 
determined according to a full factorial experimental design 
and the results are analyzed. Five two-level factors are 
considered in the experimental design. Each experiment was 
run for five times for 7200 minutes (5 days * 24 hours * 60 
minutes). The average values of results of the experiments were 
used in the analysis. The factors and their levels are given in 
Table 2. The demand of each station is exponentially 
distributed and the rate parameter of the distribution is given 
in Table 2. 
Tablo 2. Factors and their levels. 
Factors 
Levels 
Number of trains 
2; 3 
Inventory of raw material (unit) 
125; 150 
Train capacity (unit) 
250; 400 
Reorder point (unit) 
25; 50 
The distribution parameter of the demand  
0,5; 1 
As a result of the experiments, the occupancy rate (%) of a train, 
the average occupancy rate (%) for the trains, the average 
number of tours, and the average distance traveled per tour are 
determined using Equation 5, Equation 6, Equation 7, and 
Equation 8, respectively. For the stations, the average waiting 
time is considered as the performance criteria and calculated 
using Equation 9. 
𝑂𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑦 𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒= 𝑇ℎ𝑒 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑑 𝑎𝑚𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡
÷ (𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑎𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑦 
× 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠) 
(5) 
The occupancy rates for each train are summed to set the total 
occupancy rate value and the average occupancy rate is 
determined, as in Equation 6.  
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 𝑜𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑦 𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒= 
(𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑜𝑐𝑐𝑢𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑦 𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒 / 𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑠) ∗100 
(6) 
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑜𝑢𝑟= 
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑠 / 𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑠 
(7) 
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑑 𝑝𝑒𝑟 𝑡𝑜𝑢𝑟
= 𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑑 𝑏𝑦 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑠 
/𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑡𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠 
(8) 
𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 𝑤𝑎𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒=  
𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑤𝑎𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 𝑜𝑓 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 / 𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 
(9) 
The effect of the change in the factors on the average occupancy 
rate is examined by considering the main effect plot in Figure 5.  
 
Figure 5. Main effect plot of the average occupancy rate (%). 
The analysis shows that the change in demand, inventory 
capacity, and reorder point does not have a significant effect on 
the average occupancy rate. The p-value of the effects 0.712, 
0.738 and 0.056 respectively. Since the p-values>=0.05, the 
factors have no statistically significant effect. The p-values of 
the effects of number of trains and train capacity are 0.  The plot 
shows that the change in demand and inventory capacity does 
not have a significant effect on the average occupancy rate. In 
the figures, low level values of factors are shown with (-1) and 
high-level values with (+1). Here, the statistically significant 
effect belongs to the train capacity and the number of trains. 
The interaction plot in Figure 6 shows that when the train 
capacity is low, the change in the number of trains has little 
effect on the occupancy rate. According to the main effect plot, 
when the train capacity is 250, the occupancy rate is 81.43%. 
Having a capacity of 400 reduced the average occupancy rate to 
69.47%. 


--- SAYFA 7 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
68 
 
 
Figure 6. Interaction plot of the average occupancy rate (%). 
Figure 7 shows that the most effective factor on the average 
distance traveled per tour is the reorder point. Train capacity 
and inventory capacity are also effective factors. The p-values 
of these factors are 0. The average distance traveled by trains 
decreases when the reorder point is 25 units, the train capacity 
is 250 units, and the inventory capacity is 150 units. The 
interaction plot in Figure 8 supports this. 
 
Figure 7. Interaction plot of the average distance travelled. 
 
Figure 8. Interaction plot of the average distance travelled. 
As shown in Figure 9, number of trains, train capacity, the 
distribution parameter of demand, and reorder point values 
affect the number of tours statistically significantly. Since the p-
values of the effect 0, 0, 0, and 0.003 respectively. As expected, 
the average number of tours increases when the demand 
parameter is high, and the average number of tours decreases 
when the demand parameter is low. Figure 10 shows that the 
number of tours decreases significantly when the train capacity 
is 400 and the number of trains in the model is assumed to be 
3. 
 
Figure 9. Interaction plot of the average number of tours. 
 
Figure 10. Interaction plot of the average number of tours. 
The test results in terms of average waiting time are shown in 
Figure 11, and the information about the first five experiments 
with the highest and lowest average waiting times is given in 
Table 3. The results show that when the distribution parameter 
is high, the waiting time is likely to be high. We can also say that 
the high inventory capacity relieves the production system, 
considering the waiting time. 
 
Figure 11. Changing of the waiting time chart. 
Considering the test results, generally, we can say that the effect 
of the factors in the performance criteria function as expected. 
In fact, this is an indication that the proposed approach 
effectively 
manages 
the 
dynamic 
milk-run 
system. 
Furthermore, determination of levels of the factors is simple 
and efficient via experimental design.  
 
 


--- SAYFA 8 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
69 
 
 
Table 3. Highest and lowest values for waiting time (minutes). 
Experiment 
No 
Lowest value 
Highest value 
Number of 
trains 
Inventory 
capacity 
Train capacity 
Distribution 
parameter 
Reorder 
point 
5 
0.6 
 
2 
150 
250 
0.5 
25 
2 
0.7 
 
2 
150 
400 
0.5 
50 
20 
0.7 
 
3 
150 
250 
0.5 
25 
9 
0.9 
 
3 
150 
400 
0.5 
50 
4 
1.1 
 
2 
150 
400 
0.5 
25 
18 
 
11.4 
2 
150 
400 
1 
25 
29 
 
13.2 
3 
150 
250 
1 
50 
32 
 
15.1 
2 
125 
250 
1 
50 
6 
 
18.78 
2 
125 
250 
1 
25 
25 
 
26.5 
2 
150 
250 
1 
50 
 
According to performance measures such as average occupancy 
rate, average distance travelled, and average waiting time, a 
high number of trains with low train capacity suitable for the 
size of the system is appropriate. Managers can consider the 
number of trains, inventory of raw material, train capacity, and 
reorder point as 3, 150, 250, and 25 respectively both in case of 
low demand and in case of high demand. In the case of high 
demand, especially if the number of tours is desired to be low, 
train capacity can be taken as 400.  
Once the parameters are determined, the system will make its 
own milk-run flow decisions during its operation under 
dynamic demand. Thus, the proposed approach is a promising 
decision support method for managers. In many cases of the 
real milk-run problem, dynamism should be considered to 
obtain effective results. But with traditional methods. It is often 
not possible to solve the problem for every dynamic change 
because it is too costly. With this approach, effective decisions 
can be made in the running system without disturbing the 
complete system. 
5 Conclusions 
In this study, in-plant transportation activities in a dynamic 
environment are discussed. In the proposed approach, the 
milk-run system is modelled using agent-based modelling, 
which is an effective method for dynamic systems. 
In-plant transportation, route planning, scheduling and loading 
are major problems. Especially in discrete manufacturing 
systems, production rates and frequency of demand vary in real 
cases. Due to these variations, it is not possible for trains to 
always follow the same routes. This study aimed to provide a 
promising model that could handle this variability. In the 
model, stations and trains are considered agents. To operate 
the system more effectively, a departure mechanism for train 
agents and an inventory control mechanism for station agents 
were developed. The manager's decision process was 
structured by the auction mechanism. The behavior of the 
developed model was analyzed using scenarios created from an 
example. Considering the results of the scenarios, the number 
of trains, capacities of trains, the inventory capacity of the 
stations, the reorder point, and the distribution parameter of 
the demand are analyzed. 
The goal is to reduce the waiting time for the raw material of 
the stations while increasing the occupancy rate of the trains 
through the departure and auction mechanism. In addition, the 
inventory control mechanism aims to reduce the waiting time 
for the raw material in the stations. The presence of a decision-
making agent in the model strengthens the communication 
between agents. The scenario analyses show that the proposed 
model can effectively deal with dynamic demand. 
The in-plant milk run system is particularly effective in many 
sectors; automotive industry, packaging industry, food 
industry, consumer goods manufacturing industry, textile 
industry etc. However, if these industries concern dynamism in 
their operations, the traditional milk run approach is not 
sufficient for managing in-plant transportation activities. Since 
it 
requires 
frequent, 
reliable, 
and 
well 
coordinated 
transportation. For both these industries having stable 
transportation but studying under dynamism and other sectors 
which do not meet the requirements of using milk run method 
to take the advantages of milk run approaches, there is a need 
for an approach which monitors dynamic changes and ensures 
the effective implementation of the milk run methodology 
under these dynamic conditions. The proposed approach is 
aimed at addressing the gap in this area. Today’s technology 
enables to monitor the data in systems instantaneously 
considering different tools such as RFID systems and enables 
the use of these data in various industries. The proposed 
approach provides to use these data on managerial states of the 
milk run system efficiently. 
Other types of dynamics, such as dynamic situations in the 
manufacturing operations and trains, can be considered for 
future work. For example, the proposed method can be 
developed by considering dynamic situations such as station 
failures, inability to supply raw materials, train breakdowns, 
etc. Modeling and solving these dynamics with the proposed 
method is much more effective compared to traditional 
methods. Since most of the traditional methods presents a new 
solution in every dynamic change and every new solution 
affects the entire system.  But, it is often not possible to 
restructure the operations in all the processes. Managers can 
make dynamic decisions with the proposed approach, which 
consider the dynamics and offers effective solutions without 
disturbing the whole system. Furthermore, different agent 
control and bid determination mechanisms can be used to find 
a more efficient approach. Also by removing each assumption 
considered in the model, a more realistic approach can be 
obtained. Although the model is created with the specified 
assumptions, it will be much easier to remove these 
assumptions with the proposed method if necessary. The 
existence 
of 
individual 
characteristics, 
behaviors, 
and 
communication abilities of the agents enables this situation. 
The proposed approach can be applied to a real-world problem. 


--- SAYFA 9 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
70 
 
6 Author contribution statement 
In the present study, Yasemin Sevim took part in the literature 
review, methodology, modelling, performing the analyses, 
writing the original draft. Latife Görkemli Aykut contributed to 
the 
methodology, 
modelling, 
writing-review 
editing, 
supervision.  
7 Ethics committee approval and conflict of 
interest statement 
“Ethics committee permission is not required for the prepared 
article”. “There is no conflict of interest with any 
person/institution in the prepared article”. 
8 References 
[1] Sadjadi SJ, Jafari M, Amini T. “A new mathematical 
modeling and a genetic algorithm search for milk run 
problem (an auto industry supply chain case study)”. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Advanced 
Manufacturing 
Technology, 44(1-2), 194-200, 2009. 
[2] Domingo R, Alvarez R, Pena MM, Calvo R. “Material flows 
improvement in a lean assembly line: a case study”. 
Assembly Automation, 27(2), 141-147, 2007. 
[3] Hanson R, Finnsgard C. “Impact of unit load size on in-
plant materials supply efficiency”. International Journal of 
Production Economics, 133(1), 312-318, 2011. 
[4] Emde S, Boysen N. “Optimally routing and scheduling tow 
trains for JIT supply of mixed model assembly lines”, 
European Journal of Operational Research, 217, 287-299, 
2012. 
[5] Kilic HS, Durmusoglu MB, Baskak M. “Classification and 
modeling for in-plant milk-run distribution systems”. The 
International 
Journal 
of 
Advanced 
Manufacturing 
Technology, 62(9-12), 1135-1146, 2012. 
[6] Kilic HS, Durmusoglu MB. “A mathematical model and a 
heuristic approach for periodic material delivery in lean 
production environment”. The International Journal of 
Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 69(5-8), 977-992, 
2013. 
[7] Patel D, Dr. Patel MB. “Optimization approach of vehicle 
routing by a milk-run material supply system”. 
International 
Journal 
for 
Scientific 
Research 
& 
Development, 1(6), 1357-1360, 2013. 
[8] Satoglu SI, Sahin IE. “Design of a just-in-time periodic 
material supply system for the assembly lines and an 
application in electronics industry”. The International 
Journal 
of 
Advanced 
Manufacturing 
Technology,  
65(1-4), 319-332, 2013. 
[9] Alnahhal N, Noche B. “Dynamic material flow control in 
mixed model assembly lines”. Computers & Industrial 
Engineering, 85, 110-119, 2015. 
[10] Wu Q, Wang X, He YD, Xuan J, He WD. “A robust hybrid 
heuristic algorithm to solve multi-plant milk-run pickup 
problem with uncertain demand in automobile parts 
industry”. Advances in Production Engineering and 
Management, 13(2), 169-178, 2018. 
[11] Golz J, Gujjula R, Günther HO, Rinderer, S, Ziegler M. “Part 
feeding at high-variant mixed-model assembly lines”. 
Flexible 
Services 
and 
Manufacturing 
Journal,  
24 (2), 119-141, 2012.  
[12] Adriano DD, Montez C, Novaes AGN, Wangham M. “Dmrvr: 
Dynamic milk-run vehicle routing solution using fog-
based 
vehicular 
ad 
hoc 
networks”. 
Electronics 
(Switzerland), 9(12), 1-24, 2020. 
[13] Bocewicz G, Banaszak Z, Rudnik K, Smutnicki C, Witczak 
M, Wójcik R. “An ordered-fuzzy-numbers-driven approach 
to the milk-run routing and scheduling problem”. Journal 
of Computational Science, 49, 101288, 2021. 
[14] [14] Sipahioğlu A, Altın İ. “A mathematical model for in-
plant milk-run routing”. Pamukkale University Journal of 
Engineering Sciences, 25(9), 1050-1055, 2019. 
[15] [15] Choi W, Lee Y. “A dynamic part-feeding system for an 
automotive assembly line”. Computers & Industrial 
Engineering, 43(1), 123-134, 2002.  
[16] Faccio M, Gamberi M, Persona A, Regattieri A, Sgarbossa F, 
“Design and simulation of assembly line feeding systems 
in the automotive sector using supermarket, kanbans and 
tow trains: a general framework”. Journal of Management 
Control, 24(2), 187-208, 2013.  
[17] Bae K-HG, Evans LA, Summers A, “Lean design and 
analysis of a milkrun delivery system: case study”. 
Proceedings of the 2016 Winter Simulation Conference,  
Washington, DC, USA, 11-14 December 2016. 
[18] Korytkowski P, Karkoszka R. “Simulation-based efficiency 
analysis of an in-plant milk-run operator under 
disturbances”. The International Journal of Advanced 
Manufacturing Technology, 82 (5-8), 827-837, 2016.  
[19] Emde S, Gendreau M. “Scheduling inhouse transport 
vehicles to feeds parts to automotive assembly lines”. 
European 
Journal 
of 
Operational 
Research,  
260, 255-267, 2017. 
[20] Guner AR, Murat A, Chinnam RB. “Dynamic routing for 
milk-run tours with time windows in stochastic time-
dependent networks”. Transportation Research Part E: 
Logistics and Transportation Review, 97(Supplement C), 
251-267, 2017.  
[21] Fedorko G, Molnar V, Honus S, Neradilova H, Kampf R. 
“The application of simulation model of a milk run to 
identify the occurrence of failures”. International Journal 
of Simulation Modelling, 17(3), 444-457, 2018. 
[22] Kluska K, Pawlewski P. “The use of simulation in the 
design 
of 
Milk-Run 
intralogistics 
systems”. 
IFAC-
PapersOnLine, 51(11), 1428-1433, 2018. 
[23] Aragão DP, Novaes AGN, Luna MMM. “An agent-based 
approach to evaluate collaborative strategies in milk-run 
OEM operations”. Computers & Industrial Engineering, 
129, 545-555, 2019. 
[24] Baykasoglu A, Gorkemli L. “Dynamic virtual cellular 
manufacturing 
through 
agent-based 
modelling”. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Computer 
Integrated 
Manufacturing, 30(6), 564-579, 2017. 
[25] Becker T, Illigen C, McKelvey B, Hülsmann M, Windt K. 
“Using an agent-based neural-network computational 
model to improve product routing in a logistics facility”. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Production 
Economics,  
174, 156-167, 2016. 
[26] Lau HYK, Woo SO. “An agent-based dynamic routing 
strategy for automated material handling systems”. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Computer 
Integrated 
Manufacturing, 21(3), 269-288, 2008. 
[27] Malekkhouyan S, Aghsami A, Rabbani M. “An integrated 
multi-stage vehicle routing and mixed-model job-shop-
type robotic disassembly sequence scheduling problem 
for e-waste management system”. International Journal of 
Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 34(11), 1237-1262. 
2021. 
 
 


--- SAYFA 10 ---
 
 
 
 
Pamukkale Univ Muh Bilim Derg, 32(1), 62-71, 2026 
Y. Sevim, L. Görkemli Aykut 
 
71 
 
[28] Meyyappan L, Soylemezoglu A, Saygin C, Dagli CH. “A 
wasp-based control model for real-time routing of parts in 
a flexible manufacturing system”. International Journal of 
Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 21(3), 259-268, 
2008. 
[29] Zolfpour-Arokhlo M, Selamat A, Mohd Hashim SZ, Afkhami 
H. “Modeling of route planning system based on Q value-
based 
dynamic 
programming 
with 
multi-agent 
reinforcement 
learning 
algorithms”. 
Engineering 
Applications of Artificial Intelligence, 29, 163-177, 2014. 
[30] Chambers F, Serugendo GD, Cruz C. “Autonomous 
Generation of a Public Transportation Network by an 
Agent-Based Model: Mutual Enrichment with Knowledge 
Graphs for Sustainable Urban Mobility”. Sustainability, 
16(20), 1-22, 2024. 
[31] Sanogo K, Benhafssa AM, Sahnoun M, Bettayeb B, 
Abderrahim M, Bekrar A. “A multi-agent system 
simulation-based approach for collision avoidance in 
integrated 
Job-Shop 
Scheduling 
Problem 
with 
transportation tasks”. Journal of Manufacturing Systems, 
68, 209-226, 2023. 
[32] Weiss G. Multiagent Systems: A Modern Approach to 
Distributed 
Artificial 
Intelligence. 
Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, London, England, Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, 1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
