

--- SAYFA 1 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle
Routing Systems
Allan Larsen1, Oli B.G. Madsen1, and Marius M. Solomon2
1 Centre for Traﬃc and Transport
The Technical University of Denmark
DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark
ala@ctt.dtu.dk, ogm@ctt.dtu.dk
2 College of Business Administration
Department of Information, Operations and Analysis
Northeastern University
Boston, Massachusetts 02115
m.solomon@neu.edu
Summary. This chapter examines the evolution of research on dynamic vehicle
routing problems (DVRP). We deﬁne the DVRP and show how it is diﬀerent from
the traditional static vehicle routing problem. We then illustrate the technological
environment required. Next, we discuss important characteristics of the problem,
including the degree of dynamism, elements relevant for the system objective, and
evaluation methods for the performance of algorithms.The chapter then summarizes
research prior to 2000 and focuses on developments from 2000 to present. Finally,
we oﬀer our conclusions and suggest directions for future research.
Key words: Networks; transportation; dynamic vehicle routing problems.
1 Introduction
Supply chains have become a competitive weapon in the global economy. The
remarkable advances in telecommunications and information technology have
enabled companies to focus on velocity and timeliness throughout the supply
chain. To achieve these competitive advantages, they must be able to make
eﬀective use of the vast amount of real-time information now available to
them. The Dynamic Vehicle Routing Problem (DVRP) is a prime example
of a distribution context where intelligent use of real-time information can
diﬀerentiate one company from another by means of superior on-time service.
The DVRP is the dynamic counterpart of the generic vehicle routing prob-
lem (VRP). In the latter problem the objective is generally to minimize
the travel cost for several vehicles that must visit and service a number of
B. Golden et al. (eds.), The Vehicle Routing Problem,
doi: 10.1007/978-0-387-77778-8 9, c⃝Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2008


--- SAYFA 2 ---
200
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
customers. Constraints specifying capacity restrictions, time windows within
which to start service at customers, and additional requirements on the drivers
and vehicles restrict the optimization space. In the VRP all routing and de-
mand information is known with certainty prior to the day of operations, so
routes can be planned ahead. In contrast, in the DVRP part or all of the
necessary information becomes available only during the day of operation.
In other words, not all information relevant to the planning of the routes is
known by the planner when the routing process begins and information can
change after the initial routes have been constructed.
The practical signiﬁcance of the DVRP is highlighted by the variety of en-
vironments it can model. An important application is the pickup and delivery
of overnight mail. Other scenarios include the distribution of heating oil or liq-
uid gas to private households, residential utility repair services, such as cable
and telephone, and appliance repair. Additional settings are the transporta-
tion of the elderly and physically disabled, taxi cab services, and emergency
services, such as police, ﬁre, and ambulance dispatching.
This chapter is organized as follows. In section 2 we illustrate the techno-
logical environment required for the DVRP. Next, section 3 discusses diﬀerent
characteristics of the DVRP, including the degree of dynamism, elements rel-
evant for the system objective, and evaluation methods for the performance
of algorithms. Then, in section 4 we review the most important research con-
ducted until the year 2000. In the following section, section 5, we focus on
developments from 2000 to present. Finally, in section 6 we oﬀer our conclu-
sions and suggest directions for future research.
2 Technological Environment
In this section we present some of the essential technologies needed for dy-
namic vehicle routing environments.
2.1 Communication and Positioning Equipment
The communication between the vehicle drivers and the dispatching center
is essential in order to feed the most up-to-date information into the routing
system. We brieﬂy describe below the equipment for determining the current
position of the vehicles and the communication equipment for transferring
information between the dispatching center and the vehicle drivers.
A simple vehicle positioning strategy is to have the driver report back to
the dispatching center every time a customer has been serviced. To give the
planner much more information, more sophisticated alternatives make use of
positioning equipment like the GPS (Global Positioning System). The GPS
is a constellation of more than two dozen GPS satellites orbiting the Earth
that constantly send out signals giving their positions and time. Signals from
a number (usually three) of diﬀerent satellites at any given time can provide


--- SAYFA 3 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
201
receivers on the ground with enough information to calculate their precise
location within a few meters depending on which version of the GPS system is
used. For further reading on the GPS system the reader should refer to Collins
[18]. Over the last decade GPS receiver prices has dropped considerably and
today literally all high-end passenger cars as well as all service vehicles such
as trucks, delivery vans and pick-ups have GPS equipment installed from the
manufacturer.
The communication equipment between the vehicle and the dispatching
center is another essential element for the routing system. Mobile telephone
communication systems are one example of a technology capable of providing
this information. Another technology is a dedicated radio based communica-
tions system. The main diﬀerence between these technologies is in terms of ini-
tial and operating costs. Although the competition is ﬁerce within the mobile
telephone communication market, operating costs are still considerable. Usu-
ally these systems are based on text messaging or newer technologies such as
GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) and 3G (third generation) cell phones.
For a text messaging based system, a message should be sent every time a
position update is required. In case the day of operation is eight hours and the
position should be updated every 10th second this means that almost 3000
text messages per vehicle should be sent every day. On the other hand, the
initial costs of implementing a radio based communications system are very
high because transmission masts will have to be put up and relatively expen-
sive radio equipment must be installed in every vehicle. In all, a radio based
communication system has very high initial costs, while the operating costs
are almost negligible. However, the radio based system does not oﬀer the same
ﬂexibility as does its mobile telephone communications system counterpart.
This factor may be important in cases where service providers are considering
servicing a new area where transmission masts have not been installed.
In Figure 1 the basic information ﬂows between the vehicle and the dis-
patching center are shown. Ideally, the dispatching center will know in which
state the vehicle and the driver are at any given point in time. However, as
the above discussion indicated, this may prove to be unreasonable for some
applications due to the operating costs of this method. Generally, within a
real-world setting the positioning information is transmitted at ﬁxed intervals
and an interpolation scheme is employed in order to estimate the positions of
the vehicles. Alternatively, the driver sends a message about his current status
and position to the dispatch center each time he/she ﬁnishes the service at a
customer. Obviously, this approach does not oﬀer the same level of information
for the dispatcher to support his/her decision as to which vehicle to dispatch
to the next customer to be served. If the new information provided by the
now idle driver/vehicle makes the dispatcher alter the current planned routes,
he/she will have to call the other drivers directly to inform them about the
changes in the current routes. Overall a thorough analysis must be performed
to determine which approach to choose when designing a system. As we have
witnessed, the cost of communication has decreased rapidly over the years.


--- SAYFA 4 ---
202
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
    

                                                                                    



























                                            



coordinates
                                                            





GSM
Center
DISPATCH
status,
updated
route
Updated route
position
etc.
status,
position
etc.
GPS Satellite
position
signal
calculates 
Fig. 1. Sketch of the information ﬂow in a GPS based vehicle routing system.
It is not surprising that this has been the motivation for most companies to
deploy more and more sophisticated telecommunications systems.
2.2 Geographical Information Systems
The advances in digital road maps and geographical information systems
(GIS) have also been considerable over the last decade. Most industrialized
countries now have almost fully detailed road network databases. In Denmark,
DAV (Dansk Adresse og Vejdatabase - Danish Road and Address Database)
oﬀers a digital road database which is connected to detailed information on
every address in the country. The DAV database includes information on the
zip codes, oﬃcial street names, route numbers, road classiﬁcation, highest and
lowest street number on both sides of the streets. However, for the time being
DAV still needs to include restrictions on turning and information on one-way
streets.
Naturally, in a real-world application it is vital that the chosen solution
algorithm is capable of processing large amounts of geographical information
fast enough to solve the problem online. Issues related to the computation
of the shortest paths in a road network become extremely important when
implementing end user online routing applications.
The advanced GPS/GIS systems discussed above enable companies to keep
track of the position and status of their ﬂeet of vehicles at any given time. Such
advanced distribution planning systems based on the DVRP are beginning to
be embedded in Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems allowing to link
their routing data with inventory and other important information.


--- SAYFA 5 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
203
3 The Dynamic Vehicle Routing Problem
As discussed above the DVRP is the dynamic counterpart of the classic VRP.
Psaraftis [48], [49] discusses a number of dimensions that makes the DVRP dif-
ferent from the VRP. Psaraftis [49] also diﬀerentiates the two problem classes
in terms of attributes of the information used as input for the respective prob-
lem types. In addition, Powell et al. [46] distinguish between dynamism within
a problem, a model and the application of a model.
In the DVRP, vehicles must service two types of requests: advance re-
quests and immediate requests. The former are requests of static customers
that have placed them before the routing process was begun. The latter re-
quests are received from dynamic customers and arise in real-time during the
day of operations. The insertion of immediate request customers into already
planned routes is usually a complicated task that leads to either partial or
full re-planning of the non-visited parts of the routes. The complexity of a
routing problem directly aﬀects the diﬃculty of inserting dynamic customers.
For example the presence of time windows will usually increase the insertion
diﬃculty. This can lead to immediate request customers being denied service.
3.1 The Degree of Dynamism
The complexity of a dynamic vehicle routing system is a function of the num-
ber of customers and their spatial distribution, just like the VRP, but more
importantly it also depends on the number of dynamic events and their tem-
poral distribution.
Dynamism without Time Windows
In a system without time windows three important parameters are: the num-
ber of static customers, the number of dynamic customers and the arrival
times of the dynamic customers. The ﬁrst two dimensions are captured by
the degree of dynamism concept introduced by Lund et al. [39]. It is the ratio,
denoted dod, of the number of immediate requests, nimm, relative to the total
number of requests, ntot. Formally:
dod = nimm
ntot
(1)
For example in a system with ten customers, if two customers arrive while the
system is on-line, the degree of dynamism is 20 % . The degree of dynamism
mirrors many practical environments. Generally, some information is available
before the day of operations begins while the rest is received in real-time
during the day. The extent of the information received in real-time relative to
the total system information provides insights into how dynamic the routing
system really is.


--- SAYFA 6 ---
204
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
0
t
t
t
t
t
T
SCENARIO A:
1
2
5
6
time
T
0
time
t
t
t
t
t
t
1
2
3
4
5
6
4t
3
SCENARIO B:
Fig. 2. Arrival time of immediate requests.
However, this basic measure does not take the arrival times of the imme-
diate requests into account. This means that two systems, one in which the
immediate requests are received at the beginning of the planning horizon and
the other in which they occur late during the day, are perceived as equiva-
lent. Naturally, in real-life routing settings these two scenarios are however
very diﬀerent. Figure 2 illustrates two DVRP scenarios in which the times for
receiving immediate requests diﬀer considerably.
In Scenario A all six immediate requests are received relatively early dur-
ing the planning horizon. In Scenario B the requests are distributed almost
evenly throughout the planning horizon. We suggest that the planner would
prefer the former scenario to the latter, since having the highest number of
requests in the pool of waiting requests improves the solution quality with re-
spect to the objective of minimizing the total distance driven. Hence, the ex-
pected length of the route should be shorter in Scenario A than in Scenario
B since time t6 occurs much earlier in the former scenario than in the latter.
Formally, this is captured by the eﬀective degree of dynamism introduced by
Larsen et al. [36]. Let the time the i’th immediate request is received be de-
noted by ti and the entire planning horizon be denoted by [0, T ]. Then the
eﬀective degree of dynamism, denoted by edod, is deﬁned as:
edod =
nimm

i=1
(ti
T )
ntot
(2)
This measure takes the arrival times of the immediate requests into account
and is a natural extension of the dod. It is apparent that Scenario A has a
smaller edod than Scenario B.


--- SAYFA 7 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
205
0
time
t1
2
T
e
l
e
l
1
1
2
2
t2
r1
r
Fig. 3. The reaction times of two dynamic customers in a DVRP with time windows.
Dynamism and Time Windows
The measures deﬁned above can be reﬁned to allow for time windows to
be taken into consideration. We do this by means of the reaction time. The
reaction time is deﬁned as the temporal distance between the time the request
is received and the latest possible time at which the service of the requests
could begin. Formally, the earliest time that service can begin (i.e., the start
of the time window) is denoted by ei while the latest possible time that service
could begin is denoted by li. The reaction time of the i’th immediate request
is denoted by ri and ri = li −ti. Figure 3 shows this graphically.
The eﬀective degree of dynamism when customers impose time windows
(Larsen et al. [36]), denoted by edodtw, can be deﬁned as follows:
edodtw =
1
ntot
nimm

i=1
(1 −ri
T )
(3)
In a static system edodtw = 0 and in general 0 ≤edodtw ≤1. When
there are no time windows the edodtw simpliﬁes to the edod. According to
this measure, the smaller the reaction times, the more dynamic the system is.
3.2 Determining the Objectives
The traditional objective for the static VRP has been to minimize the overall
distribution costs. For the DVRP additional measures come into play. In par-
ticular, the level of service oﬀered to the customers is important for the overall
performance of the system. Often the multiple objectives encountered in the
DVRP may be conﬂicting. Naturally, objectives may diﬀer from one applica-
tion to the other. Nevertheless, a few measures are almost always relevant to
consider. These are: travel costs, service level, and throughput maximization.
As for the static VRP, the distribution costs should be considered since they
represent a true cost for the distribution company. The service level measure
of system performance is generally in conﬂict with the objective of minimiz-
ing the distribution costs since a fast response to a new immediate request
for service may imply that the vehicles will have to travel longer distances.
Throughput optimization considers the ability to serve as many customers as
possible. For some dynamic problems this is the most important objective. As
an example, the maximization of the expected number of serviced requests is
the main objective in the taxi cab business.


--- SAYFA 8 ---
206
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
3.3 Measuring Algorithmic Performance
The most accepted framework for measuring the performance of on-line al-
gorithms is competitive analysis introduced by Sleator and Tarjan [50]. For a
minimization problem the competitive ratio, crA, can be deﬁned as:
crA = sup
I
z(A, I)
z∗(I)
(4)
where z(I) is the cost of the solution found by algorithm A for instance
I and z∗is the optimal cost found by an (ideal) oﬄine algorithm which had
access to the entire instance I, including dynamic requests, beforehand. The
competitive analysis framework oﬀers a measure for evaluating the perfor-
mance of a certain on-line routing policy based on the worst-case ratio between
this policy and the optimal oﬄine policy. In other words, for each policy ex-
amined this ratio quantiﬁes the loss of cost-eﬃciency stemming from the lack
of full information.
The competitive analysis framework provides a strong basis for studies of
the performance of on-line algorithms which have produced interesting ana-
lytical results and insights. However, only very simple versions of the DVRP
can be treated using this framework. Important real-world constraints such as
time windows have so far proved to be too complex to be considered in this
framework. Furthermore, in most real-world situations it is indeed possible
to achieve an average performance which is considerably better than the one
suggested by the competitive ratio.
For more complex versions of the problem algorithmic performance has
been evaluated through empirical studies. This has usually been done by
discrete-time simulation. This type of analysis can be extended so that the
performance of a certain algorithm is evaluated by running the algorithm on
both the original dynamic instances and on the instances in which the imme-
diate requests are changed into static data. This provides an estimate of the
competitive ratio of the algorithm to go along with its average performance.
4 Research Prior to 2000
Early research has considered a number of dynamic and/or stochastic elements
in vehicle routing. The problems addressed include the Probabilistic Travel-
ing Salesman Problem (PTSP) and the Probabilistic Vehicle Routing Problem
(PVRP), the Stochastic Vehicle Routing Problem (SVRP), the Dynamic Trav-
eling Salesman Problem (DTSP), the Dynamic Traveling Repairman Prob-
lem (DTRP), the Dynamic Vehicle Routing Problem (DTSP), the Dynamic
Dial-A-Ride Problem (DARP), the Dynamic Pick-Up and Delivery Problem
(DPDP), and the dynamic version of the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time


--- SAYFA 9 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
207
Windows (DVRPTW). Other variants include the Time-Dependent Travel-
ing Salesman Problem (TD-TSP) and the Time-Dependent Vehicle Routing
Problem (TD-VRP). In contrast to the DVRP deﬁned above, the PVRP is a
VRP where each customer has a given probability of requiring a visit. In the
SVRP customers are present at locations with some probabilities and their
demands are random. In the TD-VRP the travel time between two customers
is a function of the departure time from the ﬁrst one.
Figure 4 gives a chronological overview of some of the most important work
on dynamic and stochastic vehicle routing problems prior to the year 2000. A
virtual line through the middle of the illustration divides the literature in two
sides: the left-hand one embracing a-priori optimization based models and
the right-hand one embracing real-time optimization based models. Within
the vehicle routing context a-priori based solutions mean that the planner
determines one or more routes based on probabilistic information on future
requests for service, customers demands, travel times or other parameters.
Within this setting routes will be planned before the vehicles leave the depot.
Real-time optimization models construct routes during the day of operation
while the vehicle is in-route. Horizontally, the illustration is organized so that
the basic models, as for instance the DTRP and PTSP, are located in the
middle of the illustration corresponding to the axis of complexity shown at
the bottom of the ﬁgure. Similarly the DVRPTW is placed at the very right
to represent the high complexity of this problem.
The a-priori optimization based methods have been used for the PVRP
and SVRP which are static by nature. They are generally not applicable in
a real-world on-line DVRP context since the dynamic environment leads to
very high computation times. Furthermore, it may not be worth the compu-
tational eﬀort to try to ﬁnd an optimal or near-optimal solution in a real-time
setting, because new requests may render the solution sub-optimal. Using re-
optimization each time a new request appears only seems computationally
tractable in cases where the degree of dynamism is quite low. Finally, these
algorithms require extensive a-priori information such as the probability of
a certain customer requiring service upon a certain day and time. In most
dynamic cases such detailed information will not be available.
Real-time optimization based methods have been used for problems that
are dynamic by nature, such as the DTSP and the DTRP. Extensive theoreti-
cal work on the DTRP has been conducted by Bertsimas and Van Ryzin ([12],
[13] and [14]). More complex DVRP problems have been tackled empirically.
The parallel implementation of the tabu search proposed by Gendreau et al.
[23] exempliﬁes this type of approaches.
5 Developments from 2000 to Present
Recently we have witness an ever growing body of research on the DVRP and
many of its variants. To maintain focus we will only consider advances for the


--- SAYFA 10 ---
208
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
1999
1998
1997
1987
1983
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1990
1989
1988
1986
1985
1984
1980
DVRPTW
1981
1982
DARP
Psaraftis
PTSP
Bartholdi 
et al.
PTSP
Jaillet
PVRP
Jezequel
Psaraftis
DTSP
A−priori 
optimization
Bertsimas
et al.
Bertsimas &
Van Ryzin
Bertsimas &
Van Ryzin
Bertsimas &
Van Ryzin
DTRP
DTRP
DTRP
Bertsimas &
Howell
PTSP
Stochastic
Transportation
Powell et al.
SVRP
Gendreau
et al.
DTRP
Papastavrou
DTRP
Simchi−Levi
Bertsimas &
Swihart &
Papastavrou
DARP
DARP/DPDP
Dial
A−priori optimization based models
Complexity
Complexity
Real−time optimization based models
Gendreau
et al.
Fig. 4. Chronological overview of important literature prior to 2000.


--- SAYFA 11 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
209
DVRP. Ghiani et al. [27] provide and excellent earlier review of the ﬁeld and
address the role of parallel computing strategies in this context.
5.1 A Priori Knowledge, Waiting and Relocation in Partially
Dynamic Problems
One stream of research has addressed the DVRP with various degrees of dy-
namism. Larsen et al. [36] proposed a framework for dynamic routing sys-
tems based on their degree of dynamism. Systems are partitioned in weakly,
moderately, and strongly dynamic depending on whether their degree of dy-
namism is below 20-30 %, between 30 and 80 % or over 80 %, respectively.
Recently, Larsen et al. [38] have reﬁned their three-echelon classiﬁcation of
dynamic vehicle routing systems based on the degree of dynamism and the
system objective. They also discuss methods for evaluation of the perfor-
mance of algorithms that solve on-line routing problems and list some of the
most important issues to include in the system objective. Larsen et al. [36]
then describe and test several dynamic policies to minimize routing costs for
the Partially Dynamic Traveling Repairman Problem (PDTRP) with vari-
ous degrees of dynamism. Later, Bent and Van Hentenryck [7] considered
moderately dynamic DVRPTW with stochastic customers. They proposed
a multiple scenario approach that continuously generates routing plans for
scenarios including advanced and immediate requests to maximize the num-
ber of serviced customers. Computational results on problems adapted from
the Solomon benchmarks highlight the eﬀectiveness of their approach which
increases with the degree of dynamism.
Larsen et al. [37] proposed real-time solution methods for the Partially Dy-
namic Traveling Salesman Problem with Time Windows (PDTSPTW) that
minimize lateness. One method requires the vehicle, when idle, to wait at the
current customer location until it can service another customer without being
early. Other algorithms, called relocation policies, may reposition the vehicle
at a location diﬀerent from that of the current customer based on a priori infor-
mation on future requests. The results obtained on both randomly generated
data and on a real-world case study indicated that all policies signiﬁcantly
reduced lateness at the expense of only small distance increases. The basic
policy outperformed the other methods primarily when lateness and distance
were equally minimized and proved very robust in all environments studied.
When only lateness was considered, the policy to reposition the vehicle at a
location near the current customer generally provided the largest reductions in
average lateness and the number of late customers. It also produced the least
extra distance to be traveled among the relocation policies. where waiting
and relocation points are deﬁned a priori using knowledge of the distribution,
clustering of the customers, and heuristics.
While Larsen et al. [37] deﬁned waiting and relocation points a priori using
heuristics that exploit knowledge of the distribution and clustering of the cus-
tomers, Bent and Van Hentenryck [8] allowed the vehicle to wait or relocate


--- SAYFA 12 ---
210
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
anywhere and at any time during the algorithm execution. Computational re-
sults indicate that these two strategies were very eﬀective in maximizing the
number of customer served, particularly for high dod problems that contain
many late requests. Vehicle relocation is also addressed by van Hemert and
La Poutre [55] in a DVRP context where loads generated throughout the day
must be picked up and returned to a depot within a speciﬁed time interval.
The authors analyze the beneﬁt of anticipatory vehicle moves within regions
that have a high potential of generating loads. They propose a self-adaptive
evolutionary algorithm and examine under what conditions such moves im-
prove its eﬀectiveness in terms of the ratio of the loads successfully delivered
to the total number of loads made available for transport.
Ichoua et al. [32] also propose a strategy that exploits probabilistic knowl-
edge about future request arrivals. Forecasted requests are incorporated as
dummy customers in vehicle routes. The routes are constructed by a modiﬁed
version of the tabu heuristic of Gendreau et al. [23]. Earlier, Ichoua et al. [31]
extended the method proposed by Gendreau et al. [23] to incorporate diver-
sion. That involves allowing a vehicle to be diverted from its predetermined
destination. Rather than using local or myopic strategies where a new request
for service impacts only one vehicle, the authors took a global view where
several vehicles may be aﬀected. The above papers have been motivated in
part by the DVRP faced by courier service companies. The same environment
is examined in Angelelli et al. [1] where customer requests with service time
windows have to be serviced in real time by a ﬂeet of vehicles. The authors
consider both pick-up and delivery requests and assume that customer re-
quests cannot be refused but can be postponed to future shifts. A heuristic
algorithm based on local search is proposed.
Branke et al. [15] have further analyzed waiting policies that maximize the
probability of being able to service an additional immediate request customer.
For the single vehicle case, a ”no wait” or drive without waiting policy was
shown to be optimal. However, for the multiple vehicle case, it proved to be
the worst among eight waiting policies for a vehicle starting or restarting
from the depot. A ”variable” policy proved the best. Speciﬁcally, each vehicle
drives without waiting until the time to drive the remaining distance to the
depot is equal to the slack time. Then the available waiting time is distributed
to the remaining customers in proportion to the remaining driving distances.
Independently, Mitrovic-Minic and Laporte [41] have examined similar policies
for the pickup and delivery problem with time windows. Whether to wait and
for how long is also addressed by Potvin et al. [45]. The authors consider
the impact of dynamic events in the form of travel time and customers on
the partially dynamic DVRPTW. They show that policies based on a certain
amount of waiting, that is, a certain tolerance for changes in the current
planned routes leads to better overall results.
Other novel research includes that of Montemanni et al. [42] solved a
DVRP problem using the Ant Colony System paradigm. The algorithm was
tested on simulated environments and also applied to a real-world case study


--- SAYFA 13 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
211
in the city of Lugano, Switzerland. Hvattum et al. [30] addressed a DVRP
problem that also had stochastic elements. Based on an actual application,
the authors used historical data to generate probability distributions for the
attributes of the dynamic customers. They formulate the problem as a multi-
stage stochastic programming problem with recourse and propose a heuristic
that gradually builds the routes by exploiting the information gathered on
future customer demand. The computational results illustrate the superiority
of the this method over a more standard pure dynamic heuristic that resolves
the problem at the beginning of a number of consecutive time intervals. Chen
and Xu [17] used an optimization-based dynamic approach to minimize the
total distance traveled for a dynamic vehicle routing problem with hard time
windows. At each decision epoch, the authors solve by column-generation a
static Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) consisting of
all the known orders that have not been satisﬁed up to that point. Columns
are generated dynamically over time by alternately solving a linear program
and applying a fast local-search-based heuristic. The authors report that their
approach outperformed an insertion-based heuristic on most test problems
generalized from Solomon’s problems.
5.2 The Dynamic Pick-up and Delivery Problem
Another stream of research has focused on the dynamic pick-up and delivery
problem. Attanasio et al. [4] consider the dynamic DARP where as many as
possible of the requests received throughout the planning horizon must be
satisﬁed. They present parallel implementations of a tabu search method de-
veloped earlier by Cordeau and Laporte for the DARP. The authors report
that the proposed algorithms are capable of a high service level as measured
by the percentage of satisﬁed requests. Thomas and White [54] considered the
single vehicle pickup and delivery problem where the origin and destination are
known. Immediate request customers may demand service while the vehicle is
in transit with a known probability. The authors seek a strategy to construct
routes that minimize the expected travel time and lateness penalty incurred
at the destination if the cutoﬀtime is exceeded. Using a ﬁnite-horizon Markov
decision process model they propose a policy that optimally build routes that
consider anticipated immediate request customers. This policy is computa-
tionally compared to an industry standard reactive strategy where there is
no information about an immediate request until this actually occurs for a
very small number of anticipated requests. It seems that anticipatory routing
outperformed the reactive strategy, especially when the immediate requests
are likely to occur late during the day of operations.
Coslovich et al. [19] considered a dynamic DARPTW where customers can
ask the vehicle driver for a trip at a vehicle stop. They proposed a two-phase
insertion heuristic based on route perturbations consisting of 2-opt arc swaps.
One phase is oﬀ-line and produces a feasible neighborhood of the current
route and the other phase is on-line where an attempt is made to insert the


--- SAYFA 14 ---
212
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
unexpected customer in the planned route. The objective considered was to
minimize the overall inconvenience of the advance customers. The authors re-
port computational results that indicate that their solution was quite close to
the static one and the number of unexpected requests that were not accepted
was negligible. Gendreau et al. [22] examined a diﬀerent dynamic DARPTW
faced by courier services for the same-day local pick-up and delivery of small
sized packages. The authors developed a tabu search heuristic where the neigh-
borhood structure was based on ejection chains. Their experiments conducted
in a parallel computing environment indicated that their method was superior
to insertion based methods, even in highly dynamic scenarios.
Recently, Mitrovic-Minic and Laporte [41] have examined the beneﬁts of
waiting strategies in the context of a pickup and delivery problem with time
windows. While Branke et al. [15] focused on maximizing the probability of
being able to service an additional customer, Mitrovic-Minic and Laporte [41]
sought waiting policies that can decrease the total detour and the number of
required vehicles. When a new request arrives, if the vehicle assigned to it waits
as long as possible before moving the total insertion cost can be reduced at
the expense of more vehicles. If, on the other hand, the vehicle travels as soon
as possible, the total number of vehicles is decreased but longer detours are
experienced. The authors propose an intermediate strategy, called advanced
dynamic waiting, that involves partitioning the overall tour into service zones
and allocating the total time available for waiting proportionally to the time
necessary to service each service zone. This method was able to simultaneously
decrease the total detour and the required number of vehicles. Mitrovic et al.
[40] further this line of research by proposing a double-horizon heuristic for
the dynamic PDPTW. The short term horizon, the next two hours, accounts
for immediate increase in routing cost created by the insertion of an imme-
diate request. The long-term horizon, the rest of the day of operations, deals
with the decrease in vehicle slack time. The authors propose a constructive
heuristic, which is used for every immediate request, in conjunction with a
tabu search heuristic which is called periodically.
Fleischmann et al. [21] propose a planning framework for the dynamic
PDPTW. The authors then suggest three event-based dispatching policies
which diﬀer in the length of the planning horizon per event. Using dynamic
travel time information, the procedures are compared on real-world data from
an urban traﬃc management center and a logistics service provider. Finally,
Yang et al. [56] address a real-time multivehicle truckload pickup and delivery
problem. They present a mixed-integer programming formulation for the of-
ﬂine version of the problem and propose a new rolling horizon reoptimization
strategy for the real-time version. This policy is compared with another previ-
ously introduced reoptimization policy and three other known heuristic rules.
The results of a simulation study that considered varying traﬃc intensities,
degrees of advance information, and degrees of ﬂexibility for job-rejection deci-
sions indicate that the new reoptimization policy systematically outperformed
the others.


--- SAYFA 15 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
213
5.3 Emergency Service Systems
Yet another stream of research has dealt with emergency service systems. Due
to its importance, this application has received substantial attention from the
scientiﬁc community since the early 1970s. These systems are truly strongly
dynamic since no requests are known in advance of the day of operation. The
quality of an emergency system is generally measured by its response time.
The emergency service providers and the public administration agree on a
certain level of service which for instance deﬁnes that 90% of the calls should
be served within 5 minutes whereas the remaining 10% of the calls should be
served within 8 minutes.
Often, the quality of a-priori information such as the potential location of
the next request is often quite poor. If, on the other hand, a-priori informa-
tion on future requests is available it could potentially improve the solution
quality. For example, this could involve moving an idle vehicle currently sit-
uated in a low demand area to a central location. This idea was explored by
Gendreau et al. [25] who proposed a model for real-time relocation of ambu-
lances. For a survey of emergency vehicle location and relocation problems,
see Brotcorne et al. [16]. Recently, Gendreau et al. [26] proposed a dynamic
relocation strategy for emergency vehicle waiting sites that maximizes the ex-
pected covered demand and controls the number of waiting site relocations.
They formulate the problem as an integer linear program and solve it within
reasonable computing time when the number of vehicles is relatively small.
Simulations conducted with real-world emergency medical services data from
the Montreal area conﬁrm the feasibility of the proposed approach.
5.4 Competitive Analysis
A diﬀerent stream of research has examined the DVRP using competitive
analysis. Following Bertsimas and Van Ryzin [12], [13] and [14] who were
the ﬁrst to use it in this context, Ausiello et al. [5] have studied the on-line
version of the classical Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) using this type
of analysis. The authors examine two versions of the problem and provide
lower bounds for the competitive ratio. Recently, Jaillet and Wagner [34]
have examined online versions of the TSP and TRP where each request has
a disclosure date. This is the time when the location and release date of a
request become known. This measure is similar to the reaction time introduced
by Larsen et al. [37] except it utilizes release times instead of due dates. The
authors propose online algorithms for a variety of scenarios and show that this
advanced information leads to better competitive ratios. They also provide a
general result on polynomial-time online algorithms for the online TSP.
Complexity results and competitive analysis for vehicle routing problems
are the subject of the PhD-thesis by Paepe [43]. Paepe gives a thorough anal-
ysis of the on-line version of the Dial-a-ride problem in which a single capac-
itated vehicle serves a set of customers that requests to be picked-up at some


--- SAYFA 16 ---
214
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
geographical location and to be transported to another location. The requests
appear in real-time and Paepe derives the competitive ratios of a number of
routing policies. Angelelli et al. [2], [3] studied a dynamic multi-period routing
problem. Here, the orders arriving during a period have to be completed either
in that period or the next. This means that the system will hold customers
that are to be served right away as well as customers that will have to wait
to be served. The authors introduce simple routing policies and analyze these
by examining their competitive ratios.
Other streams of research have been directed at problems related to the
DVRP. These include the Dynamic Assignment Problem (see Spivey and Pow-
ell [51]), the Dynamic Vehicle Scheduling Problem (see Huisman et al. [29])
and the VRP and its variants with time dependent travel times (see Taniguchi
and Shimamoto [53], and Haghania and Jung [28]). Their discussion is beyond
the scope of this chapter.
6 Conclusions and Directions for Future Research
This chapter has highlighted the evolution of research on dynamic vehicle
routing problems. We introduced the DVRP and illustrated how it is diﬀer-
ent from the generic VRP. We then examined the technological environment
required. Next, we delineated the salient problem dimensions, including the
degree of dynamism, the potential components to be considered in the system
objective, and theoretical and empirical evaluation methods for the perfor-
mance of algorithms. We then looked back at the research conducted prior
to 2000 and discussed the many developments from 2000 to present. Several
themes for future research have emerged from this discussion.
The level of dynamism of a system has a strong impact on the type of
algorithm to be used. Therefore, one direction for future work should consider
the design of more encompassing measures to determine the level of dynamism
of a given system. We discussed natural extensions of the basic dod measure,
edod and edodtw, which capture information on when the immediate requests
are received by the dispatcher. Other than the initial research done by Jaillet
and Wagner [34] the edod, edodtw or similar measures have yet to be considered
in system classiﬁcation or algorithmic design. While the edod and edodtw
are improvements over the deﬁnition of the dod there are still many subtle
interactions in the way requests arrive that will elude analysis for the time
being, thus making it hard to characterize the diﬃculty of dynamic routing
problems.
The above ideas are part of a broader theme which seeks to exploit knowl-
edge about future request arrivals and/or consider vehicle relocation and wait-
ing. The research of Larsen et al. [37], Ichoua et al. [32], Jaillet and Wagner
[34], Bent and Van Hentenryck [8], and van Hemert and La Poutre [55], among
others, has paved the way for future approaches. In particular, consider the
issue of choosing where vehicles should idle in anticipation of future requests.


--- SAYFA 17 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
215
When determining the attractiveness of each idle point, an algorithm may
take the arrival intensities of not only a given subregion but also neighboring
ones into consideration. More sophisticated methods, such as location analy-
sis, should be investigated.
Other interesting research directions should consider robustness considera-
tions with regards to unforeseen events (e.g., vehicle failures, traﬃc congestion
and others) and the integration of industry practices (e.g., the use of bicycles
in highly congested areas, load consolidation, and others) in the models used.
We believe a new generation of DVRP algorithms will blend the eﬀec-
tiveness of advanced methods, tailored to take advantage of special problem
structures and advanced knowledge, with the eﬃciency of parallel implementa-
tions, and the ever growing computing power of workstations to solve increas-
ingly larger and more realistic problems. The overnight courier mail service
provider environment represents a good model for the use of such new hybrid
approaches. The morning subproblem is often weakly dynamic while the after-
noon one is moderately dynamic. Therefore, a reoptimization algorithm could
ﬁrst plan a set of morning delivery routes. In case of urgent call-in requests,
the algorithm could insert the new requests into the predetermined delivery
routes. In turn, the afternoon pickup problem, would use fast algorithms for
online routing that would take advantage of a priori information on future
requests.
As companies are continuing the computer integration of their operations
through ERP systems, much more information is being transferred between
logistics and other functional areas. Implementations of advanced distribution
planning systems based on DVRPs is starting to be seen in medium sized
companies; small enterprises are next in line. This will likely be accelerated
during the coming years by the ever growing number of just-in-time global
supply chains. An example of this could be the transportation of the elderly
and handicapped. Hence, the interface between DVRP models and algorithms
and other parts of the supply chain such as warehousing and manufacturing
is an important research direction that has yet to be tapped.
We hope that this chapter has oﬀered an insightful perspective on this
rapidly moving ﬁeld. While the DVRP has reached a certain level of ma-
turity, many important problems remain open. We can only hope that this
chapter has steered suﬃcient interest that many of its readers will embark on
or continue their research in this ﬁeld.
References
1. E. Angelelli, R. Mansini, and M.G. Speranza. A real-time vehicle routing model
for a courier service problem. In B. Fleischmann and A. Klose, editors, Distribu-
tion Logistics-Advanced solutions to practical problems, pages 87–104. Springer–
Verlag, 2005.
2. E. Angelelli, M.W.P. Savelsbergh, and M.G Speranza. Competitive analysis for
dynamic multi-period uncapacitated routing problems. Technical report, School


--- SAYFA 18 ---
216
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2005.
Networks. (Forthcoming).
3. E. Angelelli, M.W.P. Savelsbergh, and M.G Speranza. Competitive analysis of
a dispatch policy for a dynamic multi-period routing problem. Technical report,
Department of Quantitative Methods, University of Brescia, 2006.
4. A. Attanasio, J.-F. Cordeau, G. Ghiani, and G. Laporte. Parallel tabu search
heuristics for the dynamic multi-vehicle dial-a-ride problem. Parallel Computing,
30(3):377–387, 2004.
5. G. Ausiello, E. Feurstein, S. Leonardi, L. Stougie, and M. Talamo. Algorithms
for the on-line travelling salesman. Algorithmica, 29:560–581, 2001.
6. J. Bartholdi III, L. Platzman, Collins L., and W. Warden III. A minimal tech-
nology routing system for meals on wheels. Interfaces, 13:1–8, 1983.
7. R. Bent and P. Van Hentenryck. Scenario-based planning for partially dynamic
vehicle routing with stochastic customers. Operations Research, 52(6):977–987,
2004.
8. R. Bent and P. Van Hentenryck. Waiting and relocation strategies in online
stochastic vehicle routing. In Proceedings of the 20th International Joint Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages 1816–1821, Hyderabad, India, 2007.
9. D. Bertsimas and L. Howell. Further results on the probabilistic traveling sales-
man problem. European Journal of Operational Research, 65:68–95, 1993.
10. D. Bertsimas, P. Jaillet, and A. Odoni.
A priori optimization.
Operations
Research, 38(6):1019–1033, 1990.
11. D. Bertsimas and D. Simchi-Levi. A new generation of vehicle routing research:
Robust algorithms, addressing uncertainty. Operations Research, 44:286–304,
1996.
12. D. Bertsimas and G. Van Ryzin.
A stochastic and dynamic vehicle routing
problem in the euclidean plane. Operations Research, 39:601–615, 1991.
13. D. Bertsimas and G. Van Ryzin. Stochastic and dynamic vehicle routing problem
in the euclidean plane with multiple capacitated vehicles. Operations Research,
41:60–70, 1993.
14. D. Bertsimas and G. Van Ryzin. Stochastic and dynamic vehicle routing with
general demand and inter travel time distributions. Appl. Probl., 25:947–978,
1993.
15. J. Branke, M. Middendorf, G. Noeth, and M. Dessouky. Waiting strategies for
dynamic vehicle routing. Transportation Science, 39(3):298–312, 2005.
16. L. Brotcorne, G. Laporte, and F. Semet. Ambulance location and relocation
models. European Journal of Operational Research, 147:451–463, 2003.
17. Z.-L. Chen and H. Xu. Dynamic column generation for dynamic vehicle routing
with time windows. Transportation Science, 40(1):74–88, 2006.
18. J. Collins. Global Positioning System. Springer Verlag, Wien, New York, 1992.
19. L. Coslovich, R. Pesenti, and W. Ukovich. A two-phase insertion technique of
unexpected customers for a dynamic dial-a-ride problem. European Journal of
Operational Research, 175:1605–1615, 2006.
20. R. Dial. Autonomous dial a ride transit - introductory overview. Transportation
Research C, 3:261–275, 1995.
21. B. Fleischmann, S. Gnutzmann, and E. Sandvoss.
Dynamic vehicle routing
based on online traﬃc information. Transportation Science, 38(4):420–433, 2004.
22. M. Gendreau, F. Guertin, J.-Y. Potvin, and R. Seguin. Neighborhood search
heuristics for a dynamic vehicle dispatching problem with pick-ups and deliver-
ies. TRC, 14:157–174, 2006.


--- SAYFA 19 ---
Recent Developments in Dynamic Vehicle Routing Systems
217
23. M. Gendreau, F. Guertin, J.-Y. Potvin, and E. Taillard. Parallel tabu search
for real-time vehicle routing and dispatching. TS, 33:381–390, 1999.
24. M. Gendreau, G. Laporte, and R. Seguin. Stochastic vehicle routing. European
Journal of Operational Research, 88:3–12, 1996.
25. M. Gendreau, G. Laporte, and F. Semet.
A dynamic model and parallel
tabu search heuristic for real-time ambulance relocation. Parallel Computing,
27:1641–1653, 2001.
26. M. Gendreau, G. Laporte, and F. Semet. The maximal expected coverage relo-
cation problem for emergency vehicles. Journal of Operational Research Society,
57(1):22–28, 2006.
27. G. Ghiani, F. Guerriero, G. Laporte, and R. Musmanno. Real-time vehicle rout-
ing: Solution concepts, algorithms and parallel computing strategies. European
Journal of Operational Research, 151(1):1–11, 2004.
28. A. Haghania and S. Jung.
A dynamic vehicle routing problem with time-
dependent travel times. Computers & Operations Research, 32:2959–2986, 2005.
29. D. Huisman, R. Freling, and A. P. M. Wagelmans. A robust solution approach to
the dynamic vehicle scheduling problem. Transportation Science, 38(4):447–458,
2004.
30. L. Hvattum, A. Lokketangen, and G. Laporte. Solving a dynamic and stochastic
vehicle routing problem with a sample scenario hedging heuristic. Transportation
Science, 40(4):421–438, 2006.
31. S. Ichoua, M. Gendreau, and J.-Y. Potvin. Diversion issues in real-time vehicle
dispatching. Transportation Science, 34(4):426–438, 2000.
32. S. Ichoua, M. Gendreau, and J.-Y. Potvin. Exploiting knowledge about future
demands for real-time vehicle dispatching. Transportation Science, 40(2):211–
225, 2006.
33. P. Jaillet.
Probabilistic Traveling Salesman Problems.
Ph.D. Thesis, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., 1985.
34. P. Jaillet and M. R. Wagner. Online routing problems: Value of advanced in-
formation as improved competitive ratios. Transportation Science, 40(2):2–21,
2006.
35. A. Jezequel.
Probabilistic Vehicle Routing Problems.
Masters Thesis, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., 1985.
36. A. Larsen, O. Madsen, and M. Solomon. Partially dynamic vehicle routing -
models and algorithms. Journal of Operational Research Society, 53:637–646,
2002.
37. A. Larsen, O. Madsen, and M. Solomon. The a-priori dynamic traveling sales-
man problem with time windows. Transportation Science, 38(4):459–472, 2004.
38. A. Larsen, O.B.G. Madsen, and M.M. Solomon. Classiﬁcation of dynamic vehicle
routing systems. In V. Zeimpekis, G. M. Giaglis, C.D. Tarantilis, and I. Minis,
editors, Dynamic Fleet Management: Concepts, Systems, Algorithms & Case
Studies. Springer–Verlag, 2007.
39. K. Lund, O. B.G. Madsen, and J. M. Rygaard. Vehicle routing problems with
varying degrees of dynamism. Technical report, IMM, The Department of Math-
ematical Modelling, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark, 1996.
40. S. Mitrovic-Minic, R. Krishnamurti, and G. Laporte.
Double-horizon based
heuristics for the dynamic pickup and delivery problem with time windows.
Transportation Research B, 38:669–685, 2004.


--- SAYFA 20 ---
218
Larsen, Madsen, and Solomon
41. S. Mitrovic-Minic and G. Laporte. Waiting strategies for the dynamic pickup
and delivery problem with time windows. Transportation Research B, 38:635–
655, 2004.
42. R. Montemanni, L.M. Gambardella, A.E. Rizzoli, and A.V. Donati. Ant colony
system for a dynamic vehicle routing problem. Journal of Combinatorial Opti-
mization, 10(4):327–343, 2005.
43. W. de Paepe. Complexity Results and Competitive Aanlysis for Vehicle Ruoting
Problems.
PhD thesis, Technical University of Eindhoven, The Netherlands,
2002.
44. J.D.
Papastavrou. A stochastic and dynamic routing policy using branching
processes with state dependent immigration. European Journal of Operational
Research, 95:167–177, 1996.
45. J.- Y. Potvin, Y. Xu, and I. Benyahia. Vehicle routing and scheduling with
dynamic travel times. Computers & Operations Research, 33:1129–1137, 2006.
46. W.B. Powell, P. Jaillet, and Odoni A. Stochastic and dynamic networks and
routing. In M.O. Ball et al., editor, Network Routing, Handbooks in OR & MS,
pages 141–295. Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 1995.
47. H. Psaraftis. A dynamic programming solution to the single many-to-many im-
mediate request dial-a-ride problem. Transportation Science, 14:130–154, 1980.
48. H.N. Psaraftis. Dynamic vehicle routing problems. In B.L. Golden and A.A.
Assad, editors, Vehicle routing: Methods and studies, pages 223–248. North-
Holland, Amsterdam, 1988.
49. H.N. Psaraftis. Dynamic vehicle routing: Status and prospects. Annals of Op-
erations Research, 61:143–164, 1995.
50. D. Sleator and R.E. Tarjan. Amortized eﬃency of list update and paging rules.
Communications of the ACM, 28(2):202–208, 1985.
51. M. Z. Spivey and W. B. Powell. The dynamic assignment problem. Transporta-
tion Science, 38(4):399–419, 2004.
52. M. Swihart and J.D.
Papastavrou. A stochastic and dynamic model for the
single-vehicle pick-up and delivery problem. European Journal of Operational
Research, 114:447–464, 1999.
53. E. Taniguchi and H. Shimamoto. Intelligent transportation system based dy-
namic vehicle routing and scheduling with variable travel times. Transportation
Research C, 12:235–250, 2004.
54. B. W. Thomas and C. C. White III. Anticipatory route selection. Transportation
Science, 38(4):473–487, 2004.
55. J.I. van Hemert and J.A. La Poutre. Dynamic routing problems with fruitful re-
gions: Models and evolutionary computation. In X. Yao, E. Burke, J.A. Lozano,
J. Smith, J.J. Merelo-Guervs, J.A. Bullinaria, J. Rowe, P. Tino, A. Kabn, and
H.-P.
Schwefel, editors, Parallel Problem Solving from Nature VIII, Lecture
Notes in Computer Science 3242, pages 690–699. Springer, Berlin, 2004.
56. J. Yang, P. Jaillet, and H. Mahmassani. Real-time multivehicle truckload pickup
and delivery problems. Transportation Science, 38(2):135–148, 2004.
