

--- SAYFA 1 ---
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tprs20
International Journal of Production Research
ISSN: (Print) (Online) Journal homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/tprs20
One-to-one relationships between Industry 4.0
technologies and Lean Production techniques: a
multiple case study
Maria Pia Ciano , Patrick Dallasega , Guido Orzes & Tommaso Rossi
To cite this article: Maria Pia Ciano , Patrick Dallasega , Guido Orzes & Tommaso Rossi
(2020): One-to-one relationships between Industry 4.0 technologies and Lean Production
techniques: a multiple case study, International Journal of Production Research, DOI:
10.1080/00207543.2020.1821119
To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1821119
© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa
UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis
Group
View supplementary material 
Published online: 01 Oct 2020.
Submit your article to this journal 
View related articles 
View Crossmark data


--- SAYFA 2 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1821119
One-to-one relationships between Industry 4.0 technologies and Lean
Production techniques: a multiple case study
Maria Pia Cianoa, Patrick Dallasega
b, Guido Orzes
b and Tommaso Rossia
aSchool of Industrial Engineering, LIUC-Università Carlo Cattaneo, Castellanza, Italia; bFaculty of Science and Technology, Free University of
Bozen-Bolzano, Bolzano, Italy
ABSTRACT
Production research literature and industry practice have started to pay increasing attention to the
Industry 4.0 (I4.0) phenomenon. Scholars and practitioners identified a strong link between this
paradigm and the well-known Lean Production (LP) paradigm. Most studies consider LP as a pre-
requisite of I4.0 and I4.0 as a tool to overcome LP limits and boost its practices. However, so far,
these effects have been studied only at a high level, without an in-depth and comprehensive pair-
wise analysis at a practice-technology level. Moreover, few empirical studies have been carried out
on this topic. Our paper attempts to fill these gaps by conducting a multiple case studies research
to explain the one-to-one relationships between LP techniques and I4.0 technologies, and vice
versa. More specifically, the one-to-one analysis examines the enabling effect of LP on I4.0 and the
empowering effect of I4.0 on LP. Based on the empirical analyses, we propose a framework on the
relationships between the two paradigms structured into six areas drawn from previous research (i.e.
manufacturing equipment and processes, shop-floor management, workforce management, new
product development, supplier relationships, customer relationships). Such representation clarifies
the interdependence of the two paradigms in the whole supply chain.
ARTICLE HISTORY
Received 11 February 2020
Accepted 24 August 2020
KEYWORDS
Industry 4.0; lean; multiple
case studies; empirical
research; smart factory
1. Introduction
The last four decades of operations management and
production research literature have been characterised
by an increasing interest in the lean production (LP)
phenomenon (Ciano et al. 2019). On one hand, LP
has been proved to eliminate wastes, reduce set-up and
lead times, reduce inventories, and improve performance
(Pozzi et al. 2018; Kovács 2020; Tortorella, Fettermann,
et al. 2020; Sancha et al. 2020). On the other hand, it can
improve the employees’ morale and satisfaction, commu-
nication, and decision-making attitude (Jasti and Kodali
2015; Hopp 2018; Ciano et al. 2019).
All these LP benefits lead to costs and efforts reduction
and contribute to reaching customer satisfaction (Jasti
and Kodali 2015; Kovács 2020). However, nowadays, the
market is increasingly competitive and requires compa-
nies to improve rapidly; moreover, it is challenging the
industry with the rapid increase of highly customised
products’ demand (Kolberg, Knobloch, and Zühlke 2017;
Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018). LP is facing sev-
eral challenges from an integration perspective; indeed,
the acquisition of exact customer needs is getting more
CONTACT Maria Pia Ciano
mciano@liuc.it
School of Industrial Engineering, LIUC-Università Carlo Cattaneo, Corso Matteotti 22, Castellanza 21053,
VA, Italia
Supplemental data for this article can be accessed here https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1821119
and more complex, pull production must face rapid
changes in scheduling, and often the set-up time reduc-
tion is based exclusively on human experience (Sanders,
Elangeswaran, and Wulfsberg 2016). The current context
implies complex systems and a consequent high-volume
data that call for the adoption of new solutions able to
exploit the potential of information and communication
technologies (Kolberg, Knobloch, and Zühlke 2017; Buer,
Strandhagen, and Chan 2018; Yin, Stecke, and Li 2018).
The literature considers the potentialities of Industry
4.0 (I4.0) able to overcome the LP’s limits in facing the
aforementioned issues (Kolberg and Zühlke 2015; Kol-
berg, Knobloch, and Zühlke 2017). Indeed, I4.0 is seen
as the ‘usage of intelligent products and processes, which
enables autonomous data collection and analysis as well
as the interaction between products, processes, suppliers,
and customers through the internet’ (Buer, Strandha-
gen, and Chan 2018). Several studies demonstrate that
I4.0 technologies significantly improve industrial perfor-
mance, most of all, flexibility, productivity, delivery time,
cost, and quality (Moeuf et al. 2018, 2020). Furthermore,
I4.0 is attracting many companies since these benefits
© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group
This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-
nc-nd/4.0/), which permits non-commercial re-use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, and is not altered, transformed, or built
upon in any way.


--- SAYFA 3 ---
2
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
can be translated into the promise of an individual and
customised production at the same cost of mass produc-
tion (Wang et al. 2016). Indeed, the integration of smart
machines and components into a digital network, at the
basis of I4.0, creates a so-called cyber-physical system
that enables a modular and changeable production (Kol-
berg, Knobloch, and Zühlke 2017), as the prerequisite of
an individual single-item production (Matt and Rauch
2013; Kolberg and Zühlke 2015).
However, I4.0 does not mean the sunset of lean. On the
contrary, literature recognises a strong interdependency
between the two paradigms (e.g. Sanders, Elangeswaran,
and Wulfsberg 2016; Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018;
Tortorella and Fettermann 2018; Kamble, Gunasekaran,
and Dhone 2020; Rossini et al. 2019; Rosin et al. 2020).
Indeed, on the one hand, the LP’s high streamlined
process orientation with defined tasks and times, its
standardisation of work and places, and its emphasis
on visual control and transparency facilitate the imple-
mentation of the I4.0 information sharing and automa-
tion (Kolberg and Zühlke 2015; Dombrowski, Richter,
and Krenkel 2017). On the other hand, several studies
pointed out that I4.0 technologies can boost LP prac-
tices (Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018). For instance,
factory integration, sensors, and IoT technologies can
improve Kanban, shorten cycle time, and make milk-
runs more efficient (Hofmann and Rüsch 2017). More-
over, these technologies allow the real-time collection of
data that can empower the value-stream-mapping and
fasten the wastes’ detection (see among others: Meudt,
Metternich, and Abele 2017; Mrugalska and Wyrwicka
2017).
The investigation of the mutual support between the
two paradigms is however still characterised by some
gaps. Even though scholars agree on the enabling effect
of implementing LP before I4.0, so far this effect has
been studied just at a high level, without investigating
the specific LP practices that cause it (Buer, Strandha-
gen, and Chan 2018). Moreover, there is still a lack of
an in-depth and comprehensive pairwise analysis at a
practice-technology level, able to clarify the roles of both
paradigms in a LP-I4.0 transformation (Rossini et al.
2019). These gaps are also related to the general scarcity
of empirical studies about the topic (Buer, Strandhagen,
and Chan 2018; Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019).
Indeed, according to a recent review, only 14 percent of
the studies in the field are empirical and actually veri-
fied how the relationships occur (Pagliosa, Tortorella, and
Ferreira 2019).
All these aspects led to the lack of a holistic inte-
gration framework (Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018),
especially of one considering the link between I4.0
technologies and LP practices according to the entire
value chain (Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019).
This paper aims to fill these gaps by distinguishing and
characterising the possible effects of the two paradigms
on each other in enabling, i.e. the creation of oppor-
tunities for something to become able or competent,
and/or empowering, i.e. the achievement of a sense of
self-efficacy and of best version (Dunst, Trivette, and
Deal 1988). Given their definitions, and the fact that an
empowering effect implies that its objectives are already
present or possible (Dunst, Trivette, and Deal 1988), we
consider the effect of LP on I4.0 enabling, and the effect
of I4.0 on LP empowering. The analysis of these effects is
conducted in a one-to-one way, answering the following
research questions:
RQ1: How do LP techniques and practices enable I4.0
technologies and characteristics?
RQ2: How do I4.0 technologies and characteristics
empower LP techniques and practices?
More in detail, the aim of our paper is theory building
on the relationship between Industry 4.0 and Lean pro-
duction, i.e. identifying the key concepts of these two
paradigms and their interrelationships (Gioia and Pitre
1990; Corley and Gioia 2011).
The results are obtained through the analysis of eight
case studies conducted in manufacturing companies that
apply both paradigms.
Our paper significantly contributes to both produc-
tion research theory and practice. Indeed, it fills the
content gaps depicting a detailed picture of the relation-
ship between LP and I4.0 in both directions. Moreover,
the results lead to the formalisation of an integration
framework that encompasses all the areas of the value
chain. The disclosure of the practice-technology relation-
ship and the insights given by the companies can help
practitioners in understanding the requirements and in
anticipating the effects of the specific directions of the
LP-I4.0 transformation.
The article is organised as follows: Section 2 defines
the domain of LP and I4.0 and outlines their relation-
ship through a literature review. Section 3 describes the
research method and the analysed sample. The results
from the case studies are presented in section 4. Section 5
discusses the main findings in light of extant literature,
while section 6 summarises and concludes the article.
2. Background
This section aims first to explain the main concepts of
both LP and I4.0 paradigms and to collect the key tech-
niques and technologies to be investigated. Then, it aims


--- SAYFA 4 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
3
to depict the state of the art of the scientific production
that focuses on the effect of LP on I4.0 and the effect of
I4.0 on LP.
2.1. Main concepts
2.1.1. Lean production practices and techniques
In over forty years of study, the body of knowledge on LP
has expanded considerably to include dedicated journals,
various special issues and many literature reviews on it.
According to the high recognised reviews by Bhamu and
Sangwan (2014) and by Jasti and Kodali (2015), in liter-
ature LP is generally addressed from two points of view,
namely from a theoretical perspective related to guiding
principles and general goals (Womack and Jones 1996;
Spear and Bowen 1999), or from the practical perspective
of a set of practices and techniques that can be observed
directly (Shah and Ward 2003). The scope of this study
leads to deepening the understanding of LP practices and
techniques, the tools through which LP helps companies
to achieve all the above-mentioned benefits, and to strive
towards operational excellence (Möldner, Garza-Reyes,
and Kumar 2020).
LP practices have been extensively adapted and imple-
mented in several sectors with the general expectation
that by adopting the same set of practices, the companies
can obtain similar benefits that will distinguish them in
their businesses (Tortorella, Fettermann, et al. 2020).
In literature, the LP practices were often categorised
into bundles (Sancha et al. 2020; Bevilacqua, Ciarapica,
and De Sanctis 2017). Flynn, Sakakibara, and Schroeder
(1995) focused on the practices related to Just-in-Time
(JIT) and Total Quality Management (TQM). Sakakibara
et al. (1997) divided the practices into infrastructure
practices (quality management, workforce management,
manufacturing strategy, organisational characteristics,
product design) and JIT practices (set-up time reduc-
tion, schedule flexibility, maintenance, equipment layout,
kanban and JIT supplier relationships). For McLachlin
(1997), LP practices can be associated to the JIT flows,
Human Resource Management (HRM) and empower-
ment, Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) and equip-
ment management, and TQM. According to Van Assen
and de Mast (2019), these four bundles of practices are
still the most addressed by literature.
Looking at the tradition of LP literature, Jasti and
Kodali (2015) affirmed that it can be classified into four
research streams, i.e. lean manufacturing, lean product
development, lean supply chain management and lean
enterprise. The first three streams concern the applica-
tion of LP in the related fields, the last one emphasises
the application of LP across the entire value chain of
a company (Womack and Jones 1994). Indeed, a lean
enterprise is a company that selects the best practices
in all functional areas and the management of external
relationships (Karlsson and Åhlström 1996).
Based on this last concept, the seminal study by Paniz-
zolo (1998) suggested a scheme for classifying the LM
practices composed of six areas of intervention of LP
that encompass all the internal and the external piv-
otal aspects: the manufacturing area, other internal areas
such as product design and development and human
resources, and relationships with external actors belong-
ing to the supply chain, namely suppliers and customers.
Later, this scheme was recalled by Doolen and Hacker
(2005) and by Bai, Satir, and Sarkis (2019); both stud-
ies updated the techniques and practices correspond-
ing to the six areas identified by Panizzolo (1998). In
particular, the recent study of Bai, Satir, and Sarkis
(2019) included the findings of many works attempt-
ing to classify LM practices, namely Bortolotti, Boscari,
and Danese (2015); Sezen, Karakadilar, and Buyukozkan
(2012); Saurin, Marodin, and Ribeiro (2011); Pettersen
(2009); Shah and Ward (2007); Shah and Ward (2003);
Cua, McKone, and Schroeder (2001). The general clas-
sification brought by Panizzolo (1998) and the following
studies adopting his view assign to the area manufactur-
ing equipment and process, all the techniques related to the
set-up and cycle time reduction, to the work standardis-
ation and the pursuit of quality. Another area, devoted
to the shop floor management, includes the techniques
regarding the pull flow, the lot size reduction, and the
production scheduling. The external actors belonging
to the supply chain, i.e. suppliers and customers, have
two distinct areas, i.e. supplier relationships and customer
relationships. The internal relationships with the work-
force were characterised by a set of LP practices referring
to their commitment and their organisation, like multi-
functional teamwork. Finally, the area about new prod-
uct development included the techniques concerning the
standardisation of the components and the design for
manufacturing.
Nowadays, in addition to internal LP practices within
individual manufacturing organisations, existing stud-
ies and industry pay attention to LP practices in the
context of manufacturing supply chains (Meng 2019).
Therefore, to adopt a comprehensive value chain per-
spective, considering both internal and external areas,
this study refers to a list of LP techniques and prac-
tices classified into the related impact areas, drawn
from Panizzolo (1998), Doolen and Hacker (2005),
Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan (2018), Bai, Satir, and
Sarkis (2019), and their main references, as reported in
Table 1.


--- SAYFA 5 ---
4
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
Table 1. LP practices and techniques classiﬁed into six impact
areas.
Areas
LP practices and
techniques
Sources
Manufacturing
Equipment and
Processes
Value Stream Mapping
(VSM)
Process Mapping
Set-up time reduction
– SMED
Andon
Poka-Yoke
Standardised Work
Statistical Process
Control
Total Productive
Maintenance (TPM)
Elimination of Waste
5S and Visual
Management (VM)
Lean Layout
Shop-Floor
Management
Kaizen
Kanban/ Pull Strategy
Heijunka
One-Piece-Flow
Just-in-Time (JIT)
Takt Time
Jidoka
Bai, Satir, and Sarkis
(2019);
Buer, Strandhagen, and
Chan (2018);
Bortolotti, Boscari,
and Danese (2015);
Sezen, Karakadilar, and
Buyukozkan (2012);
Saurin, Marodin,
and Ribeiro (2011);
Pettersen (2009);
Shah and Ward (2007);
Doolen and Hacker
(2005);
Shah and Ward (2003);
Cua, McKone, and
Schroeder (2001);
Panizzolo (1998)
Supplier Relationships
Long-term Supplier
Supplier Involvement
Customer
Relationships
Customer Involvement
Workforce
Management
Multifunctional Team
Employee
Commitment
New Product
Development
Standardisation of
Components
Design for
Manufacturing
2.1.2. Industry 4.0 technologies and characteristics
I4.0 is a label referred to the cyber-physical production
system based on the integration, the transparency and
the availability of heterogeneous knowledge, for meeting
the market’s requirements (Lu 2017). I4.0 is not limited to
direct manufacturing in the company, but it concerns the
whole value chain (Lu 2017; Rojko 2017; Tortorella and
Fettermann 2018; Frank, Dalenogare, and Ayala 2019).
Moreover, it can track and support the entire lifecy-
cle of systems and products introducing new business
and services (Rojko 2017; Dalenogare et al. 2018). Fur-
thermore, I4.0 significantly affects production dynamics;
its technologies can indeed substitute the conventional
forecast based production planning with real-time plan-
ning together with dynamic self-optimisation (Moeuf
et al. 2020; Sanders, Elangeswaran, and Wulfsberg
2016).
The concept of I4.0 is very complex and comprehen-
sive, and literature does not provide a univocal definition
(Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018; Piccarozzi, Aquilani,
and Gatti 2018; Culot et al. 2020). Among the many,
Pan et al. (2015) focused on the fact that I4.0 repre-
sents the ability of industrial components and actors to
communicate. This focus on the link between elements
was highlighted by Kovács and Kot (2016) as well; they
argued that the core point of I4.0 is the introduction
of network-linked intelligent systems able to realise a
self-regulating production. Burritt and Christ (2016), Lu
(2017), Frank, Dalenogare, and Ayala (2019), Bai, Satir,
and Sarkis (2019) and many other authors proposed a
definition of I4.0 based on its combining nature, con-
sidering I4.0 as an umbrella term to describe a group
of connected technological advances for increasing the
digitisation of the business.
This last aspect was underlined by the key work in
the I4.0 formalisation developed by Rüßmann et al.
(2015), who identified nine technological ‘pillars’ of I4.0:
(i) Autonomous Robots, (ii) Simulation, (iii) Horizontal
and Vertical Integration, (iv) Industrial Internet of Things
(IIoT), (v) Cybersecurity, (vi) Cloud, (vii) Additive Manu-
facturing, (viii) Augmented Reality, and (ix) Big Data and
Analytics. The pillars are also confirmed by the review of
I4.0 definitions performed by Culot et al. (2020), as well
as by other reviews on Industry 4.0 (i.e. Liao et al. 2017;
Machado, Winroth, and Ribeiro da Silva 2020; Parente
et al. 2020).
Autonomous Robots include: Collaborative Robots, that
perform repetitive and non-ergonomic tasks in direct
collaboration with the operator (Romero et al. 2016);
Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV), that realise decen-
tralised coordination of supplies (Stock and Seliger 2016);
and Smart Machines that communicate with robots and
products and make consequent decisions (Davenport
and Kirby 2016).
Simulation can leverage real-time data to mirror the
physical world in a virtual model (Rüßmann et al.2015),
a concept that also leads to the Digital Twin (DT) (Uhle-
mann, Lehmann, and Steinhilper 2017). DT represents
an achievement even for maintenance; indeed, training
or scenarios simulations can be performed in a safe con-
text replicating the ‘real’ environment (Tuegel et al. 2011;
Negri, Fumagalli, and Macchi 2017; Liu, Meyendorf, and
Mrad 2018).
Horizontal and Vertical System Integration guarantees
the truly automated value chain (Rüßmann et al. 2015).
Horizontal Integration, across the whole value chain, and
Vertical Integration, within the company, are possible due
to MES/ERP software, sensors and IIoT for data sharing
(Lasi et al. 2014; Ivanov, Dolgui, and Sokolov 2019). This
might also allow to enhancing the ripple effect control
along supply chains (Ivanov, Dolgui, and Sokolov 2019).
IIoT allows the interconnection at the basis of the integra-
tion enriching some devices with embedded computing.
Some examples of IIoT are RFID, sensors, tags, global
positioning systems (Shrouf, Ordieres, and Miragliotta
2014), real-time scanning through smartphones (Xu,


--- SAYFA 6 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
5
Xu, and Li 2018), and smart bins (Thürer et al.
2016).
With interconnection, companies need protection
from cyber-attacks. Some Cybersecurity systems listed in
literature are encryption, cryptography, virus scanners,
signature scanner, ICT Anomaly Detection/IDS (Flatt
et al. 2016).
Data sharing and data analytics can be facilitated by
the adoption of Cloud-based software. Indeed, cloud
computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network
access to a shared collection of resources (Mell and
Grance 2011).
Additive Manufacturing, a layer-by-layer build-up of
parts (Herzog et al. 2016), such as 3D Printings, allows
a quickly customised single-item or small batches pro-
duction. In this regard, smart material with shape mem-
ory can be used to achieve the desired characteristics
(Dilberoglu et al. 2017).
Augmented Reality (AR), as an overlap of computer-
generated sensory input in a physical real-world, and Vir-
tual Reality (VR), as a completely artificial environment
created by software (Chavan 2014), might be applied
for different purposes, like warehouse management, lay-
out testing, operators’ training, and remote maintenance
(Rüßmann et al. 2015; Büttner et al. 2017).
Big Data collected in the smart factory allows pro-
cess optimisation. Data Analytics divides into Descrip-
tive, Predictive and Prescriptive. Descriptive Analytics
describes the current situation and helps in the diagno-
sis of the problems; Predictive Analytics predict future
events; while Prescriptive Analytics concerns decision-
making mechanisms (Nguyen et al. 2018). Artificial Intel-
ligence can exploit the collected data to make the sys-
tem self-aware, self-adaptive, proactive and prescriptive
(Kibria et al. 2018).
Various studies argue that Industry 4.0 offers unique
opportunities to redesign production processes as well
as business models, this way significantly enhance firm
performance (Moeuf et al. 2020; Hahn 2020; Culot et al.
2020).
Table 2 provides an overview of the main I4.0 tech-
nologies and characteristics considered by this study,
classified into the nine pillars presented above.
2.2. The effect of lean production on Industry 4.0
The history of LP is characterised by a tendency towards
autonomation since its early stages; indeed, its founder,
Taiichi Ohno, stated that repetitive value-adding pro-
cesses should be automated to improve the information
flow and meet the market demands (Kolberg, Knobloch,
and Zühlke 2017). In this regard, Ohno adopted the
term ‘autonomation’ (Ohno 1988). Since autonomy is
Table 2. I4.0 technologies or characteristics.
I4.0 pillar (Rüßmann
et al. 2015)
Technologies or
characteristics
Sources
Autonomous Robots
Collaborative Robots
Automated Guided
Vehicles
Smart Machines
Romero et al. 2016
Stock and Seliger 2016
Davenport and Kirby
2016
Simulation
Of Product
Of Process
Rüßmann et al. 2015
Digital Twin
Uhlemann, Lehmann,
and Steinhilper
2017; Tuegel
et al. 2011; Negri,
Fumagalli, and
Macchi 2017; Liu,
Meyendorf, and
Mrad 2018
Horizontal and Vertical
System Integration
Interconnection
between machines
and MES/ERP
Data Sharing between
Suppliers, Company
and Customers
Lasi et al. 2014
The Industrial Internet
of Things
RFID, Sensors, Tags,
Global Positioning
Systems
Shrouf, Ordieres, and
Miragliotta 2014
Real-Time scan-
ning through
Smartphone
Xu, Xu, and Li 2018
Smart Bin
Thürer et al. 2016
Cybersecurity
Encryption, cryptogra-
phy, virus scanners,
signature scanner,
ICT Anomaly
Detection/IDS
Flatt et al. 2016
Cloud
Cloud systems for
data sharing or for
analytics application
Mell and Grance 2011
Additive
Manufacturing
3D Printing
Dilberoglu et al. 2017;
Herzog et al. 2016
Smart Materials
Dilberoglu et al. 2017
Augmented Reality
Augmented Reality
Virtual Reality
Büttner et al. 2017;
Chavan 2014
Big Data e Analytics
Descriptive (and
diagnostic)
Predictive
Prescriptive
Nguyen et al. 2018
Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Kibria et al. 2018
a crucial theme in I4.0, LP can be considered as its
precursor.
According to Wang et al. (2016), a production process
already based on LP can be an easier environment for the
introduction of I4.0. Other papers stated or demonstrated
the same concept (Parente et al. 2020). Kolberg and Züh-
lke (2015) and Dombrowski, Richter, and Krenkel (2017)
highlighted the need for the LP process orientation and
defined tasks and times to implement the I4.0 autono-
mation and information exchange and to lower the risks
of integration. Indeed, only standardised processes allow
the identification of errors and the consequent trou-
bleshooting, essential for a valuable synchronisation of
the various processes (Butollo, Jürgens, and Krzywdzin-
ski 2018). Evidence by Tortorella and Fettermann (2018)
proved that the success of I4.0 is significantly associated


--- SAYFA 7 ---
6
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
with the level of LP adoption. Pessl, Sorko, and Mayer
(2017) confirmed the importance of LP suggesting its
adoption as a fundamental strategy in a roadmap for I4.0
implementation. Erol et al. (2016) pointed out that LP as
a basic competence should be transferred as well to the
technical level. Mayr et al. (2018) added that LP enables
I4.0 even because of the competencies that a LP decision-
maker has in considering customer value and in avoiding
wastes. They also highlighted the potential of LP reduc-
tion of product and process complexity to enable the
efficient and economic use of I4.0 technologies. Even the
more recent paper by Rossini et al. (2019) emphasises the
need for a previous LP adoption to successfully introduce
I4.0. Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira (2019) highlighted
that VSM can be potentially beneficial for the adoption
of I4.0 since it provides a structured approach to identify
improvement opportunities.
Therefore, literature seems to consider LP as a pre-
requisite to the I4.0 implementation (Ciano et al. 2019).
Nevertheless, Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan (2018) iden-
tified a lack of investigation about the facilitating effect of
LP on I4.0. Indeed, even if scholars agree on the general
enabling effect of I4.0 on LP, the knowledge of how it hap-
pens is still immature (Wagner, Herrmann, and Thiede
2017; Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018; Rossini et al.
2019).
2.3. The effect of Industry 4.0 on lean production
Literature focusing on the effect of I4.0 on LP is richer
than the one focused on the opposite direction. How-
ever, few articles considered a comprehensive set of tech-
nologies or practices (see Mayr et al. 2018; Rosin et al.
2020; Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019). Indeed,
most studies considered limited and specific aspects.
For instance, Kietzmann, Pitt, and Berthon (2015) high-
lighted that 3D Printers can be considered a new form
of Kanban, as they can intervene in the inventory man-
agement replicating JIT items on-demand. Lu, Li, and
Tian (2015) stated that the adoption of 3D Printing
helps in equipment maintenance, re-manufacturing and
on-site maintenance. Regarding SMED, Feldmann and
Gorj (2017) argued that, since Additive Manufactur-
ing is not product-specific, the set-up time for selec-
tion, search and adjustment of pieces and tools are
avoided.
According to Negahban and Smith (2014), Simulation
empowers JIT, because it allows to test and optimise the
AGV’s routes. Rosin et al. (2020) found that the ability
of Simulation to detect bottlenecks ensures JIT continu-
ous flow. Simulation can be also used for the identifica-
tion of ideal Kanban parameters like stock, delivery fre-
quency and lot size (Goienetxea Uriarte, Ng, and Urenda
Moris 2020). DT, instead, can reproduce realistic produc-
tion plants helpful in maintenance activities (Mayr et al.
2018).
JIT, and especially One-Piece-Flow, can be promoted
by Collaborative Robots included in lean assembly lines
allowing the increase of production capacity and hence
productivity (Gil-Vilda et al. 2017).
According to Rosin et al. (2020), the majority of
the studies about the support of I4.0 on LP focus on
IIoT. Indeed, they are essential to retrieve informa-
tion, identification and assignment of spaces, materi-
als, pieces and tools (Mayr et al. 2018). Literature par-
ticularly focuses on the benefits that IIoT and Cyber-
Physical Systems can bring to VSM (Buer, Strandhagen,
and Chan 2018; Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019;
Kamble, Gunasekaran, and Dhone 2020), Continuous
Flow, Pull/Kanban strategy, and VM (Rosin et al. 2020).
Real-time data collected by IIoT can bring to the so-
called VSM 4.0 (Meudt, Metternich, and Abele 2017), a
dynamic picture of the shop floor (Buer, Strandhagen,
and Chan 2018; Tortorella, Pradhan, et al. 2020). The
JIT continuous flow and the Pull/Kanban strategy are
ensured by the IIoT ability to track products in real-time
and to send instant progress updates (Rosin et al. 2020).
Smart Bins recognise in real-time their filling level and
the system sends a virtual Kanban to trigger replenish-
ments (Kolberg and Zühlke 2015). IIoT can empower
VM thanks to the visual monitoring information avail-
able to employees (Rosin et al. 2020). The studies by
Kolberg and Zühlke (2015), Ma, Wang, and Zhao (2017),
and Kolberg, Knobloch, and Zühlke (2017) focused on
the role of Integration and IIoT for the empowerment of
Jidoka, especially Andon. The latter study underlined the
positive effect of IIoT and Integration on JIT, Heijunka
and Continuous Improvement.
Other papers focus on the importance of IIoT devices
to collect data for the prediction and the prescrip-
tion of maintenance programmes (e.g. Lee et al. 2015;
Khoshafian and Rostetter 2015; Sanders et al. 2017; Kip-
per et al. 2020).
Mayr et al. (2018) highlighted the importance of Big
Data and Analytics in JIT, indeed the analysis of real-
time process information provides insights into param-
eters, trends, and rules for the production system. In this
direction, Huo, Zhang, and Chan (2020) propose a fuzzy
control system that uses real-time data made available by
Industry 4.0 technology to determine when to rebalance
an assembly line and how to adjust production rates to
achieve higher utilisation of machines and lower buffer
levels.
Mayr et al. (2018) stated that AR and VR are important
for JIT, TPM, SMED, VSM and Poka-Yoke. They mainly
focused on the possibility of AR to replace physical


--- SAYFA 8 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
7
boards to guide operators and on the use of VR to train
operators for maintenance objectives. Similarly, Mourtzis
et al. (2019) report on an AR-based maintenance sys-
tem that provided an increased capacity to a robotics
company.
Considering the supply chain level, Núñez-Merino
et al. (2020) investigated by using a Systematic Litera-
ture Review (SLR) the relationships between Information
and Digital Technologies (IDT) of Industry 4.0 and Lean
Supply Chain Management. According to the authors,
when extended to the supply chain level, a large num-
ber of IDT of Industry 4.0 and several Lean practices are
used at the same time. As an example, IoT use in Lean
Supply Chain Management usually occurs together with
RFID, Cyber-Physical System (CPS), Cloud Computing
and Big-Data affecting positively different LP practices.
These benefits cover agility, flexibility, information shar-
ing, collaboration, coordination, reduced costs, faster
deliveries, reduced inventory levels as well as errors,
enabling traceability and inventory control, reduced risk,
improved service quality as well as customer satisfaction
(Núñez-Merino et al. 2020).
Among the others, Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018
pointed out that one underexplored aspect in litera-
ture is the effect of I4.0 on the so-called ‘soft’ LP tech-
niques, namely the ones regarding Workplace and VM
and Human Resources.
In conclusion, it can be argued that the relationship
between the two paradigms has been studied mostly
at a high level, with a poor investigation at a practice-
technology level (Rossini et al. 2019). As can be seen,
some studies deepened the relationship but referring to
specific and limited aspects. The studies by Mayr et al.
(2018), Rosin et al. (2020) and Pagliosa, Tortorella, and
Ferreira (2019) attempted to conduct a comprehensive
pairwise investigation. However, the first two studies
focused just on the effect of I4.0 on LP, a research area
that has more contribution than the one referring to the
opposite direction (Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018).
Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira (2019) proposed syn-
ergy levels in both directions, but referring to LP they
explained only the ones of VSM and Takt-Time on the
general paradigm of I4.0.
3. Research method
3.1. Case study approach and sampling
Driven by the goal of our paper (theory building) and the
nature of the RQs (i.e. ‘how’ questions, see the Introduc-
tion section), we adopted a multiple case study methodol-
ogy. This research methodology, ‘oriented towards explo-
ration, discovery, and inductive logic’ (Patton 2002),
is indeed suited to the development of data grounded
testable theories (Eisenhardt 1989; Voss, Tsikriktsis, and
Frohlich 2002).
Our unit of analysis is the company within a manu-
facturing value chain. Considering the focus of our study
(i.e. the relationship between I4.0 and LP) the popula-
tion of interest consists of companies that have adopted
both these paradigms. We adopted a theoretical sampling
method (Eisenhardt 1989; Patton 2002) and selected het-
erogeneous cases in terms of firm size (both SMEs and
large companies1), manufacturing industries (e.g. man-
ufacture of fabricated metal products, electromechanical
and electronic components, pumps, cableways, and seal-
ing solutions), and level of adoption of I4.0 (both ‘normal’
adopters and lighthouse plants) and homogeneous cases
in terms of country (Italy). The sampled companies con-
sist of different players of the manufacturing value chain
(e.g. case D is a supplier of case H, and case C is a provider
of MES and other I4.0 technologies). Despite the focus
on the manufacturing value chain and a single coun-
try might reduce the possibility to generalise findings, it
ensures that variation is not caused by extraneous or con-
founding variables (e.g. Saunders, Lewis, and Thornhill
2003).
Table 3 provides data about the sampled companies,
using code names to protect identity. Appendix A shows
in detail the specific LP principles and techniques as well
as I4.0 technologies adopted by each company.
3.2. Data collection
Data were mainly collected through face-to-face semi-
structured interviews. Archival data (e.g. annual reports,
websites, and internal documents on LP or I4.0 imple-
mentation projects) were also used to triangulate the
empirical evidence.
Based on the review of the relevant literature (see
section 2), we defined an interview protocol organised
in four main sections: (1) general information about the
company and the interviewee; (2) adoption of LP prin-
ciples and techniques; (3) adoption of I4.0 technologies;
(4) relationships between LP and I4.0. In section 2, we
provided to the interviewees a detailed list of LP princi-
ples and techniques classified into six impact areas (see
Table 1) and asked them whether, when, and in which
department each technique was adopted. In section 3, we
provided instead to the interviewees a detailed list of I4.0
technologies or characteristics (see Table 2) and asked
them whether, when, and in which department/activity
each technology was adopted. Finally, in section 4, we
asked to the interviewees to identify and explain all pos-
sible one-to-one links between LP practices and I4.0
technologies (in both directions), i.e. whether and how


--- SAYFA 9 ---
8
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
Table 3. Sampled companies.
Code
Sector/products
Employees
Turnover
(euro)
Size
Note
Case A
Manufacture of fabricated metal products
60
9,5 M
SME
Case B
Manufacture of electromechanical and
electronic components
36
10,5 M
SME
Case C
Manufacture of electromechanical and
electronic components
240
43 M
SME
Manufacturing lighthouse (The World
Economic Forum)
Case D
Manufacture of electromechanical
components
102
25 M
SME
Case E
Manufacture of pumps
250
100 M
LARGE
Case F
Manufacture of cableways
3500*
1,21 B*
LARGE
Case G
Manufacture of health care sealing solutions
270
45 M
LARGE
Case H
Manufacture of electrical equipment
5.869*
2,344 B*
LARGE
Lighthouse plant of the cluster ‘Fabbrica
Intelligente’ (Italian Ministry of Economic
Development)
*Since data of the manufacturing company were not available for this case, we reported here data of the entire group.
each LP technique/practice has enabled the adoption
of each I4.0 technology/characteristics and whether and
how each I4.0 technology/characteristic has empowered
each LP technique and practice. The interview protocol
is reported in Appendix B.
In each company, we interviewed at least two man-
agers (including the production and operations man-
ager) to enhance validity (Yin 2003) and reliability of
the collected data (Voss, Tsikriktsis, and Frohlich 2002).
Each interview lasted 90–120 min. All interviews were
recorded and transcribed verbatim.
3.3. Data analysis
We created a database for each case consisting of the
interview transcripts, field notes, and archival data. As
suggested by Eisenhardt (1989) and Voss, Tsikriktsis, and
Frohlich (2002), we then analysed the data following a
two-step procedure (i.e. within-case analysis and cross-
case analysis). Due to length limitation, we however
reported in the paper only the results of the cross-case
analysis.
In the within-case analysis, we developed for each case
two tables, following the suggestions of Miles and Huber-
man (1994) for qualitative data analysis. In the first one,
we put in the lines the LP practices/techniques men-
tioned by the interviewees, in the columns the I4.0 tech-
nologies mentioned, and in the intersections the expla-
nation of the enabling effects of LP practices on I4.0
technologies provided by the interviewees (if any) (an
excerpt of this table can be found in Appendix C – Table
C.1). In the second table, we put instead in the lines
the I4.0 technologies mentioned by the interviewees, in
the columns the LP practices/techniques mentioned, and
in the intersections the explanation of the empowering
effects of I4.0 technologies on LP practices/techniques.
Coding and data analysis were conducted manually by
two authors to ensure inter-coder reliability (Duriau,
Reger, and Pfarrer 2007). These two authors and an addi-
tional one who was assigned the role of ‘resident devil’s
advocate’ discussed and resolved any disagreements.
In the cross-case analysis, we then combined the
above-mentioned tables into two summary tables with
the results of all analysed cases concerning (a) the
Table 4. The enabling eﬀect of LP practices and techniques on I4.0 technologies or characteristics.
Area
LP practices and
techniques
Enabling eﬀect on I4.0
I4.0 Technology
or characteristic
Cases
Manufacturing Equipment
and Processes
Value Stream Mapping
(i)
It allows the identiﬁcation of the pivotal
areas in which invest with I4.0 technologies
C; E; F; G; H
(ii)
It allows the deﬁnition of the value-adding
tasks to be standardised in electronic Job
Element Sheets (JES) visualised on monitors
at the working stations. The electronic JES
allow the operator to insert information up
to date in the MES and ERP promoting the
integration
Vertical Integration
B; C; E; F; G; H
Process Mapping
(i)
It allows the identiﬁcation of the process
ﬂow, and therefore of the materials, WIP and
information ﬂows, essential to the design of
the MES/MOM for the integration or to inte-
grate to the ERP
Vertical Integration
A; B; C; D; E; F; G; H
(continued)


--- SAYFA 10 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
9
Table 4. Continued.
Area
LP practices and
techniques
Enabling eﬀect on I4.0
I4.0 Technology
or characteristic
Cases
Set-up time reduction
– SMED
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Andon
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Poka-Yoke
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Standardised Work
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Statistical Process
Control
(i)
The Overall Equipment Eﬀectiveness (OEE)
concept deﬁnes data to be collect and anal-
ysed, namely all the data related to availabil-
ity, performance, and quality
Descriptive Analytics
B; C; E; F; G; H
TPM
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Elimination of Waste
(i)
PDCA and A3 to design new tools able to
facilitate the introduction of I4.0 technolo-
gies (e.g. in case G A3 were used to design
new carts able to facilitate collaborative
robots in picking plaques from the shearing
machine)
Autonomous Robots
G
5S and Visual
Management
(i)
The standardisation and optimisation of the
warehouse facilitates the adoption of smart-
phones to manage materials: without rules
and standards the smartphones would iden-
tify more inconsistencies than matches
Real-time Scanning
with Smartphone
E; H
(ii)
The standardisation and optimisation of the
warehouse facilitates the adoption of AR
glasses to manage materials: without rules
and standards the smartphones would iden-
tify more inconsistencies than matches
Augmented Reality
H
(iii)
Standardisation and optimisation of the
workstations and the warehouse facilitate
Autonomous AGV in the material handling
Autonomous AGV
E; H
Lean Layout
(i)
In case E. a Lean Re-Layout in a straight-line
cell facilitated the route of the autonomous
AGV
(ii)
In case D, the introduction of a Collabora-
tive Robot in the U-shape cell made the ﬂow
more balanced and continuous.
Autonomous AGV
E; D
Shop-Floor Management
Kaizen
(i)
Kaizen events facilitate the acceptance of
I4.0 implementation by the workers and cre-
ate shared occasion to bring new ideas (e.g.
in case G, a multifunctional team designed
the new cart above-described during a
kaizen event)
C; E; F; G; H
Kanban/ Pull Strategy
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Heijunka
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
One-Piece-Flow
(i)
It facilitates tracking and tracing of pieces in
real-time increasing transparency
Vertical Integration
C; E; F; H
Just-in-Time
(i)
It facilitates tracking and tracing of pieces in
real-time increasing transparency
Vertical Integration
C; E; H
Takt Time
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Jidoka
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Supplier Relationships
Long-term Supplier
(i)
The relationship with suppliers based on
lean practices enables the Horizontal Inte-
gration, indeed companies can trust suppli-
ers in sharing platforms about the real-time
status of the material consumption and in
letting them manage electronic Kanban. On
the other hand, involved suppliers are more
willing to give such service.
Horizontal Integration
E; H
Supplier Involvement
Customer Relationships
Customer
Involvement/
Customisation
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Workforce Management
Multifunctional Team
(i)
Problem Solving conducted in multifunc-
tionalteamandcontestsforinnovativeideas
enable the choice and the introduction of
I4.0 solutions
G; H
Employee
Commitment
New Product Development
Standardisation of
Components
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Design for
Manufacturing
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed


--- SAYFA 11 ---
10
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
Table 5. The empowering eﬀect of I4.0 technologies or characteristics on LP practices or techniques.
I4.0 pillar
Technologies or
characteristics
Empowering eﬀect on LP
LP principle or
technique
Cases
Autonomous Robots
Collaborative Robots
(i)
They speed up One-Piece-Flow
(e.g. in case H, a YuMi® robot is
included in the production line for
assembling disconnect switches
one by one faster than human
workers used to do allowing a
more balanced line)
One-Piece-Flow
E; H
(ii)
They relieve workers from repet-
itive and alienating tasks (e.g. in
case A collaborative robots substi-
tute human workers in the repeti-
tive action of picking metal sheet
from the press)
Employees
Commitment
A; E; G; H
Autonomous AGV
(i)
They empower the supply of
materials to workstations and
supermarket managed through
Kanban
Kanban
E; H
(ii)
They
allow
an
itinerant
pre-
assembly that reduce machine
tooling and promote JIT produc-
tion. Indeed, the AGV visits all
the stations of the supermarket
according to the identiﬁed route
for the speciﬁc product and the
workers add every time a sequen-
tial component to the work in
progress
SMED
JIT
H
Smart Machines
(i)
They can track the material con-
sumption empowering Kanban
system
Kanban
C; D; E; F; H
(ii)
They can detect and separate
products with defects (e.g. in case
D, the operator cannot throw
a good piece into the waste-
basket and vice versa because
the machine to mount clips on
ﬁlter units recognises the defect
through a camera and opens
only the gate of the wastebasket.
Moreover, the machine does not
allow to go on until the wrong
piece is discarded)
Poka-Yoke
D; H
(iii)
They can detect anomalies in the
process through sensors or cam-
eras and call for repair via an alarm
on smartphones, smartwatches or
screens
Andon
A; B; C; D; E; F; G; H
(iv)
They receive information about
diﬀerent
materials,
products,
or work phase and prepare the
right set-up of the machine’s
parameters (e.g. in case D, a
smart machine represents the
last and single station for the
packaging phase. It recognises
diﬀerent
orders
with
barcode
scanning and gives workers the
right components for the manual
assembly)
SMED
A; B; C; D; E; F; G; H
(v)
They receive information about
diﬀerent work phases and displays
the relative electronic JES on mon-
itors
Standardised Work
A; B; C; D; E; F; G; H
(continued)


--- SAYFA 12 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
11
Table 5. Continued.
I4.0 pillar
Technologies or
characteristics
Empowering eﬀect on LP
LP principle or
technique
Cases
Simulation
Product Simulation
(i)
It allows to understand if stan-
dardised components and modu-
larity strategy can meet the cus-
tomer requirements
Modularity
Customisation
A; B; C; D; E; F; H
(ii)
It allows to understand which con-
ﬁguration allows to reduce scraps,
material consumption, and pro-
cessing phases meeting the LP
motto ‘do more with less’
Kaizen
A; B; C; D; E; F; G; H
Process Simulation
(i)
It allows conﬁguring the layout
such as to empower the process
ﬂowIn some cases, the process
ﬂow to empower is a One-Piece-
Flow
Lean layout
One-Piece-Flow – JIT
C; D; E;G; HC; D; E; H
(ii)
Scheduling Simulation is adopted
to respect the JIT principle
JIT
E; H
Digital Twin
(i)
It creates a virtual Obeya-Room in
diﬀerent plants to share informa-
tion and work in Multifunctional
Teams from distant plants
Obeya-Room
Multifunctional Team
H
(ii)
Machine DT Simulation allows to
try diﬀerent maintenance solu-
tions in a safe condition and to
forecast future maintenance (e.g.
in case H, it is possible to repli-
cate in VR electric panel for these
purposes)
TPM
H
Horizontal and Vertical
system Integration
Machines integrated with MES,
ERP
(i)
The integration allows real-time
information record and sharing
that empower:
(a)
Kanban system: material con-
sumption
is
always
recorded
and
I.
in case of warehouse integra-
tion, it triggers pick-to-light
systems (with smartphones
or lights in the shelf)
II.
in case of autonomous AGV
adoption, it directs the mate-
rial handling
Kanban
C; E; H
(b)
JIT: the ﬂow is transparent and
there is real-time awareness of the
machine’s capacity and availability
that allows to better react to plan
deviations
JIT
C; D; E; H
(c)
Immediate
communication
of
anomalies
or
breakdowns
(in
case C and H communicated also
through wearable smartwatches)
Andon
A; B; C; D; E; G; H
(d)
Data collection to calculate real-
time KPIs (especially all the com-
ponents of the OEE, namely avail-
ability, performance, and quality)
Statistical Process
Control
B; C; E; G; H
Data shared with suppliers
and/or partners through IIoT
systems
(i)
A shared platform of real-time
data
empowers
the
supplier
involvement (shared warehouse
and KPIs situation)
Supplier involvement
E; G; H
(ii)
A shared platform of real-time
data allows the supplier of trans-
port and logistics to better plan its
deliveries
Supplier involvement
G; H
(iii)
A shared platform of real-time
data empowers the Kanban sys-
tem directly managed by the sup-
plier
Kanban
H
(continued)


--- SAYFA 13 ---
12
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
Table 5. Continued.
I4.0 pillar
Technologies or
characteristics
Empowering eﬀect on LP
LP principle or
technique
Cases
The Industrial Internet of
Things
RFID, sensors, tags, global
positioning systems
(i)
RFID adoption allows to recognise
the die and set all the relative
parameters up
SMED
G
(ii)
An RFID based tool management
system avoids that the wrong tool
is used by the machine and thus
that the tool or the workpiece is
damaged.
Poka-Yoke
A; F; H
(iii)
RTLS can map movement creating
spaghetti charts or can create heat
maps that give information about
the need for re-layout
Lean Layout
D; G; H
Real-time scanning with
smartphone
(i)
It allows the Pick-to-light in the
warehouse
Kanban
E
(ii)
It allows the real-time control of
machines’ KPIs just pointing them
with a tablet or a smartphone
Statistical Process
Control
C; H
Cybersecurity
encryption, cryptography, virus
scanners, signature scanner,
ICT Anomaly Detection/IDS
No eﬀect identiﬁed
Cloud
Cloud
No direct eﬀect identiﬁed
Additive Manufacturing
3D Printing
(i)
It allows the production of small
customised pre-series
Customisation
E
(ii)
It allows the production of proto-
types to test if modular and stan-
dardised elements can meet cus-
tomers requirement
Modularity
Customisation
A; B; C; D; E; F; H
(iii)
It allows the production of Poka-
yoke tools (jig and clamps)
Poka-Yoke
A; E; H
Virtual / Augmented
Reality
Augmented Reality
(i)
AR glasses are adopted for interac-
tive maintenance instruction
TPM
A (project); H
Virtual Reality
(i)
It allows a virtual walk through a
simulated layout to test if the con-
ﬁguration allows a ﬂuid process
and comfortable motions
Lean layout
G; H
Big Data and Analytics
Descriptive (e diagnostic)
(i)
It provides real-time KPIs calcu-
lation, essential for the statistical
control of the process (especially
for calculating OEE)
Statistical Process
Control
B; C; E; F; G; H
(ii)
This analysis helps in detecting
defects, weaknesses and wastes
Kaizen
B; C; E; F; G; H
(iii)
Due to this analysis, it is possible
to display real-time information in
the visual board and discuss them
during the 5 min meeting
Employee
Commitment
Waste Reduction
B; C; E; F; G; H
Predictive
(i)
It allows predicting maintenance
actions
TPM
H
Prescriptive
(i)
It allows to prescript a mainte-
nance plan
TPM
H
Artiﬁcial Intelligence
(i)
Genetic
algorithm
is
adopted
to
optimise
Heijunka
(multi-
objective genetic algorithm for
levelling the workstations work-
load according to the Heijunka
principle)
Heijunka
H
enabling effects of LP practices on I4.0 technologies
(RQ1) (an excerpt of this table can be found in Appendix
C – Table C.2) and (b) the empowering effect of I4.0 tech-
nologies on LP practices/techniques (RQ2). Finally, we
combined the findings of the different cases and devel-
oped two summary cross-case analysis tables that are
reported in Tables 4 and 5. Two I4.0 technologies initially
considered (i.e. smart bins and smart materials) were then
removed from the list since none of the analysed cases
implemented them (see Appendix A).
3.4. Validity and reliability
Various strategies suggested by Yin (2003) and Eisen-
hardt (1989) were adopted to enhance the validity and
reliability of the results. To ensure construct validity, we
triangulated empirical evidence from different sources,
mainly interviews and archival data (such as annual
reports, websites, and internal documents provided by
the sampled companies), and from multiple respondents
(see Section 3.2). Furthermore, the coding and data


--- SAYFA 14 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
13
Figure 1. One-to-one relationships between LP techniques and I4.0 technologies.
analysis were carried out by two researchers/authors sep-
arately and then compared (see Section 3.3); the few
disagreements in the initial coding/analyses were widely
discussed until a final agreed decision was reached. Inter-
nal validity was instead enabled by pattern matching,
i.e. we iteratively compared the findings of the within-
case analysis with the proposed model (whose final
version is reported in Figure 1), until when theoreti-
cal saturation was reached. To increase external validity
(i.e. the generalizability of the results) we adopted a
theoretical sampling method (Eisenhardt 1989; Patton
2002), explained in detail in Section 3.1, and we identi-
fied commonalities and differences in the analysed cases
(Section 3.3). Finally, reliability was ensured by defining
and following a case study protocol during field research
and analysis (see Section 3.2 and 3.3) as well as by creating
a case study database containing interview transcripts,
field notes, and archival data.
4. Results
The results of the case studies are presented below in
two paragraphs corresponding to the two possible direc-
tions of the relationship between LP and I4.0. Tables 4
and 5 summarise their characteristics. LP practices and
techniques and I4.0 technologies or characteristics not
adopted by any of the companies (see Appendix A) have
been excluded from the analysis and are not present
in the tables. If none of the companies recognised
an enabling/empowering effect of a specific item of a
paradigm on a specific one of the other paradigm, the
relevant row shows the entry ‘no direct effect identified.’
4.1. The enabling effect of LP practices and
techniques on I4.0 technologies
All the case studies investigated in this work confirmed
the agreed statement of LP as a prerequisite of I4.0. Sup-
porting this view, in all the cases LP has been in general
adopted before I4.0. However, Case A reported a partic-
ular situation in which a premature introduction of I4.0
technology called for a step back to the LP techniques.
Indeed, the company introduced Smart Machines and
Collaborative Robots that increased productivity. Still,
the layout was neither optimised nor standardised, so the
increased production was often addressed to the wrong
place, work-in-progress were piled up disorderly, and
different lots were mixed up. Therefore, the company
understood the need for the application of LP techniques
for workplace and plant standardisation, namely 5S
and VM.
Case D, E, and H understood that Lean Layout could
be the basis in which including I4.0, indeed they applied
cell design and then introduced Autonomous Robots
or Smart Machines such as to facilitate the flow. For
instance, Case D introduced Collaborative Robots in the
U-shape cell in the position in which the line could be
more balanced and the flow more continuous.
In summary, all the interviewees argued something
similar to the statement of the manager of case H:
‘If a company does not apply LP before introducing


--- SAYFA 15 ---
14
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
technologies and digital innovations, the results would be
just a digitalisation of existing wastes.’
Considering RQ1, the cases provided deep insights
about the one-to-one enabling effects of LP techniques on
I4.0 technologies. These enabling effects are summarised
in Table 4 and presented in detail below.
Some LP techniques can have an enabling effect on the
introduction of I4.0 in general. First examples are repre-
sented by VSM and Kaizen (see cases C, E, F, G, and H).
Indeed, VSM can be adopted to identify the pivotal areas
within the value stream in which invest with any I4.0 for
boosting the performance. For instance, case G, belong-
ing to the pharmaceutical industry, stated that ‘through
VSM, we understood the crucial point in our process (i.e.
the cleanroom) and applied I4.0 technologies to optimise
order recognition as well as set-up activities, speeding up
the entire phase’.
Kaizen events, instead, involve people and facilitate
their acceptance of I4.0 implementation creating shared
occasions to bring in new ideas. Kaizen events are charac-
terised by Multifunctional Teams that can adopt different
Problem Solving and Elimination of Waste techniques to
solve an inefficiency or to improve an area. This is what
happened in case G, in which, during a Kaizen event, a
Multifunctional Team adopted PDCA and A3 to design
new carts for facilitating collaborative robots in picking
plaques from shearing machines.
Kaizen and Multifunctional Team are often considered
‘soft’ LP techniques (Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018),
however the analysed case studies prove that their con-
tribution to I4.0 can be very effective. Buer, Strandhagen,
and Chan (2018) classified as ‘soft’ also 5S and VM. How-
ever, also these other ‘soft’ techniques are proven to have
strong enabling effects on I4.0. Indeed, according to case
E:
The principle of everything at the right place, the so-
called ‘set in order’ of 5S, is necessary for the picking
and the supply of materials and products in an auto-
mated way. Searching for specific items in a chaotic ware-
house trying to use real-time scanning with smartphones
would lead to find more inconsistencies than matches.
Case H supported and confirmed this statement. This
company also adopted AR via smartphones for manag-
ing the warehouse and therefore found the need for 5S
and VM for this technology. Referring to the need for 5S
and VM rules and standardisation, case E added: ‘Other-
wise, the automation would not be efficient; for instance,
an AGV in a not-standardised environment would have
to perform every time a reroute.’ Case E found out that
also a Lean Re-Layout in a straight-line cell enables the
adoption of Autonomous AGV facilitating their routes.
In cases C, E, F, and H JIT and One-Piece-Flow were
fundamental practices for enabling tracking and tracing
of pieces in real-time, contributing to the transparency
aimed by Vertical Integration, and, if present, Horizontal
Integration. Indeed, as stated by case F:
The One-Piece-Flow principle and the connection of
machines to the ERP-system both enable the introduc-
tion of a production flow that facilitates the I4.0 tracking
and tracing of pieces in real-time. This increases trans-
parency allowing to identify quality errors in early phases
and consequently to reduce reworks and/or scraps.
Regarding Vertical Integration, all the cases highlighted
the need to Map Processes, not necessarily in a Value
Stream view, but at least in a process flow view, to identify
the flow of the materials, WIP and information, essential
to the design of the MES/MOM.
In cases B, C, E, F, G, and H, VSM, instead enabled
Vertical Integration. Indeed, it allowed defining the
value-adding tasks to be standardised in electronic Job-
Element-Sheets (JES) visible on monitors at the working
stations. The electronic JES allow the operator to insert
up-to-date information in the MES and ERP promoting
the integration. Skipping from a phase to the following
one after completion, the system can record the employed
time. If workers stop the station because of defects or
tools breakage, the system will record the machine down-
time and its causes allowing the updating of KPIs and
related root cause analyses.
In the same cases, KPIs to be calculated with Descrip-
tive Analytics are defined by the LP concept of Overall
Equipment Effectiveness (OEE). OEE defines data to be
collected, namely the ones related to availability, per-
formance, and quality. Case C took advantage of I4.0
creating a new business division that provides other com-
panies with new software for the shop floor integration
whose several monitoring parameters are based on this
LP parameter.
Regarding Horizontal Integration, case E and H iden-
tified in the practices of keeping long term relationships
with suppliers and involving them as a fundamental basis.
Indeed, companies can trust suppliers in sharing plat-
forms about the real-time status of material consumption
and in letting them manage electronic Kanban. On the
other hand, involved suppliers are more willing to give
such services.
4.2. The empowering effect of I4.0 technologies or
characteristics on LP techniques
Unlike the previous analysis, the cases proved that almost
all the I4.0 technologies or characteristics have spe-
cific empowering effects on LP practices or techniques
(Table 5). Only Cybersecurity is excluded. Cloud has no
empirical evidence to empower LP, but some intervie-
wees recognised that it might empower the techniques


--- SAYFA 16 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
15
belonging to the shop-floor management area and the
relationships with suppliers and customers due to the
on-demand shared data availability (case C, E, G, H).
All the cases identified the empowering effects of
Smart Machines on Andon, SMED, and Standardised
Work and the one of Product Simulation on Kaizen.
Smart Machines can detect anomalies in the process
through sensors or cameras and call for repair via smart-
phones, smartwatches, or screens empowering Andon.
They can also receive information about materials,
products, or work phase and prepare the right set-up of
the machines empowering SMED. For instance, in case D,
a Smart Machine represents the last and single station for
the packaging phase. It recognises different orders with
barcode scanning, and it gives workers the right compo-
nents for the manual assembly of the boxes, drastically
reducing the time for picking the right component.
Receiving information corresponding to the precise
product and work phase allows displaying the relative JES
on monitors. These virtual JES can be easily updated if
any product changes configuration or if the line balancing
finds a new configuration.
Product Simulation meets the purposes of continuous
improvement; indeed, it allows to understand which con-
figuration can reduce scraps, material consumption, and
phases.
Regarding the other pillars, Autonomous Robots have
an empowering effect on several LP techniques. Collabo-
rative Robots can speed up One-Piece-Flow (cases E and
H). For instance, in case H, a YuMi® robot is included in
the production line for assembling disconnect switches
one by one faster than human workers used to do,
allowing a more balanced line. They can also empower
employees’ commitment by handling all the repetitive
and alienating activities they used to do (case A, E, G,
and H). For instance, in case A Collaborative Robots sub-
stituted human workers in the repetitive action of picking
metal sheets from the press. Only cases E and H adopted
Autonomous AGV. Both the cases noticed an empower-
ing effect on the supply of materials to workstations and
supermarkets managed through Kanban. Case H adopted
them also for the itinerant pre-assembly, which allows
reducing machine tooling, empowering SMED and JIT
production. Indeed, the AGV visits all the stations of
the supermarket according to the identified route for
the specific product, and the workers add every time a
sequential component to work in progress. Furthermore,
cases C, D, E, F, and H proved the empowering effect of
Smart Machines on a Kanban system. This effect is due
to the real-time track of the material consumption that
makes instantly the Kanban system aware of the need for
replenishment. Cases D and H identified in similar ways
an empowering effect of Smart Machines on Poka-Yoke
practices. Case D argued that:
The machine to mount clips on filter units recognizes the
defect through a camera and opens only the gate of the
wastebasket. Moreover, the machine does not allow to
go on until the wrong piece is discarded. Once human
errors were normal and understandable, now they do not
happen anymore.
In addition to the effect on Kaizen, Product Simulation
can empower modularity and customisation, testing if
standardised components and modularity strategy can
meet the customer requirements (cases A, B, C, D, E, F
and H).
Process Simulation, instead, allows trying different lay-
out configurations for choosing the one that better facili-
tates the process flow (cases C, D, E, G, H), or even One-
Piece-Flow (cases C, D, E, H). Often, the company can
have a virtual walk within the simulated environment for
testing if the configuration allows a fluid process (cases G
and H). It also allows for finding the right scheduling to
respect JIT practices (cases E and H).
Case H is the only one that adopts DT (appendix A).
The company identified an interesting empowering effect
of DT on a multifunctional team, especially on teams
with people located in different plants that share ideas
and monitor the development of strategies and new prod-
ucts in a virtual simulated Obeya-Room. The company
also highlighted an empowering effect of DT on TPM.
Indeed, with machine DT Simulation, it is possible to
try different maintenance solutions in a safe condition
and thus allowing to forecast future maintenance. For
instance, the company replicates an electric panel in VR
for these purposes.
Machines integrated with MES/ERP allow real-time
information record and sharing that empower Kanban
(cases C, E, and H), JIT (cases C, D, E, and H), Andon
(cases A, B, C, D, E, G, H), and Statistical Process Con-
trol (cases B, C, E, G, and H). Considering Kanban,
material consumption is always recorded, and, in case
of warehouse integration, it triggers pick-to-light sys-
tems (with smartphones or lights in the shelf). In the
case of Autonomous AGV adoption, it directs the mate-
rial handling. Due to this Vertical Integration, the flow
is transparent, and there is real-time awareness of the
capacity and availability of the machines that allow react-
ing better to plan deviations empowering JIT. The Real-
Time Tracking can identify and immediately commu-
nicate anomalies or brake-downs respecting the Andon
principle. In cases C and H, this Andon 4.0 also com-
municates through wearable smartwatches. Finally, data


--- SAYFA 17 ---
16
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
collection allowed by Vertical Integration allows calculat-
ing real-time KPIs (especially all the components of the
OEE, namely availability, performance, and quality).
The Horizontal Integration, implying data shared with
suppliers and/or partners through IIoT systems, can
empower supplier involvement (cases E, G, and H) and
the direct management of Kanban by the suppliers them-
selves (case H).
About IIoT, case G adopts RFID in presses for recog-
nising the die and setting all the corresponding param-
eters. This practice reduces set-up time significantly
empowering SMED. A similar match is performed by
cases A, F, and H for the recognition of the right tool for
the right machine, a kind of Poka-Yoke 4.0.
Another IIoT, the RTLS (real-time location system), is
adopted by cases D, G, and H to map movements creat-
ing spaghetti charts or heat maps that give information
about the need for a re-layout. Case E adopts pick-to-
light in the warehouse facilitating the picking and hence
empowering Kanban. Case C and H adopt scanning with
smartphones to point machines for monitoring KPIs in
real-time. Case C explained that
by pointing the keyboard of the machine, it is possible
to access not only the real-time KPIs, but also the his-
torical ones. So far, we are only displaying KPIs, but this
latter aspect could be used in the future for maintenance
purposes; indeed, the access to historical breakdowns
directly on-site could be useful.
Additive Manufacturing shows an empowering effect on
customisation in case E, indeed the company used it
for producing small customised pre-series. Most of the
cases, namely A, B, C, D, E, F, and H, adopted 3D
Printings only for prototyping purposes to test if mod-
ular and standardised elements can meet customers’
requirements. Cases A, E, and H, instead, use them
to produce specific Poka-Yoke tools, mostly jigs and
clamps.
AR is fully adopted only by case H, in which glasses
and smartphones give interactive maintenance instruc-
tion overlapped to the physical world. Case A has the
project of introducing Microsoft HoloLens for receiving
maintenance instructions by the machinery constructor.
Six out of the eight case studies, namely cases B, C, E,
F, G, and H, perform Data Analytics, but only Descrip-
tive/Diagnostics. This technology empowers the Statisti-
cal Process Control, indeed it provides real-time KPIs’
calculation, especially OEE in these cases. The analysis of
the defects, the bottlenecks, and wastes promote contin-
uous improvement (Kaizen), as well. All the KPIs and the
performed analysis also give the material to display in the
visual board during the 5-minutes meetings, empower-
ing the employees’ commitment and the waste reduction
techniques.
Only case H performs Predictive and Prescriptive Data
Analytics and both to empower TPM’s plans. Case H also
exploits data adopting a multi-objective genetic algorithm
for levelling the workstations workload according to the
Heijunka principle, fundamental for the company.
The manager of case H highlighted an interesting
effect of I4.0 on workers, indeed he stated:
The first attempts of LP implementation found resistance
and mistrust. I4.0, instead, is making all the workers
enthusiastic. Tablets, smartwatches, overlapped objects,
autonomous AGV, etc. are accepted because everything
has the shape of a game. In our company, this ‘gaming’
effect made the introduction of I4.0 technologies consid-
erably less difficult than the adoption of traditional LP
techniques.
Even if only one case reported this aspect, this can sug-
gest interesting possible implications. Indeed, given the
interdependence between the two paradigms, perhaps
the gaming aspect of I4.0 can drag workers into a new
enthusiastic adoption of LP techniques as well.
5. Discussion
This section discusses the results of the one-to-one rela-
tionships between I4.0 technologies and LP techniques
according to the six LP impact areas. Furthermore, the
original results of our paper compared to previous studies
are summarised in Section 5.7.
The results of the 8 case studies are summarised and
depicted graphically in Figure 1. It follows the structure
and symbology of a conventional Vale Stream Map to
highlight how an analysis of individual cases has revealed
the importance of lean and I4.0 throughout the value
chain of a manufacturing company. The upper part of
each impact area, coloured in light grey, depicts the
enabling effects of LP techniques to I4.0 technologies
(RQ1). The lower part with the white background visu-
alises the empowering effects of I4.0 technologies to LP
techniques (RQ2).
The underlined enabling or empowering effects repre-
sent the original findings not found by previous studies.
5.1. Manufacturing equipment and processes
Considering RQ1, our study gives evidence that VSM
enables a Vertical Integration of manufacturing processes.
Moreover, VSM can be considered as a prerequisite to
identify the focal areas and processes of a company to
support with I4.0 technology. More in detail, VSM allows
identifying the value-adding tasks to be standardised in
electronic JES. The interaction with them allows infor-
mation update, as explained in section 4.1. Therefore,


--- SAYFA 18 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
17
VSM sets the basis for the Integration of different pro-
cesses as well as different information systems (MES and
ERP) confirmed by recent works (e.g. Sony 2018; Kol-
berg, Knobloch, and Zühlke 2017).
Based on our results, Statistical Process Control has an
enabling effect on Descriptive Analytics. This is in line
with the outcomes of Jugulum (2016) that highlighted
the importance of data quality to perform high-quality
analytics.
The cases show that 5S and VM bring rules and stan-
dardisation that allow an appropriate implementation of
I4.0 technologies used for the management of materi-
als, like Smartphones, AR as well as Autonomous Robots
and AGVs. On the other hand, literature also reports that
AR can assist in carrying out 5S more efficiently (Mayr
et al. 2018), confirming mutual support between the two
paradigms. Our results show also that a Lean Layout can
be considered as a fundamental prerequisite to obtaining
efficient routing of Autonomous AGV.
Considering RQ2, our results reveal that Autonomous
Robots empower SMED, Poka-Yoke, Andon and Stan-
dardised Work. Considering the early detection of prob-
lems and error prevention, our findings confirm that
Smart Machines can recognise an improper use of equip-
ment in advance and therefore empower the LP concept
of Poka-Yoke (Li, Ai, and Sun 2013). Similarly, the fact
that Smart Machines can detect anomalies within the pro-
duction process in real-time confirms that they empower
Andon (Ma, Wang, and Zhao 2017). In this direction,
our results reveal that Horizontal and Vertical System
Integration empower Andon and Statistical Process Con-
trol. In particular, machines integrated with MES and
ERP systems can immediately communicate anomalies
or breakdowns as well as calculate KPIs in real-time.
In line with research performed by Kolberg and Zühlke
(2015), in case of problems/failures, employees equipped
with smartwatches are notified immediately and inde-
pendently from their location. Similarly, according to
our results, IIoT empowers Poka-yoke, SMED and Sta-
tistical Process Control. Here, companies reported using
RFID to avoid the use of a wrong tool by a machine
and that the RFID tag recognises the die allowing an
autonomous set-up of all parameters. This is in line with
the research of Mayr et al. (2018), presenting the concept
of Poka-Yoke 4.0. Besides, in our case studies, Additive
Manufacturing allows the production of Poka-Yoke tools
like jigs and clamps, which confirms Lu, Li, and Tian
(2015). Considering Statistical Process Control, compa-
nies reported the use of smartphones for real-time con-
trol of machine’s KPIs. This confirms Georgakopolous
et al. (2016) who outlined the opportunity of IIoT to bet-
ter understand production processes and how to improve
them. Based on our results, Simulation enables TPM
through a machine DT that tries different maintenance
solutions in a safe environment to forecast optimal main-
tenance strategies. This is in line with Tuegel et al. (2011),
who proposed the use of DT for predicting the life of
aircraft structures to assure their structural integrity. In
addition, our research reveals that Process Simulation
allows trying different layout configurations through a
virtual walk in the simulated environment reaching a
Lean Layout. This aspect enriches the research area con-
cerning Process Simulation to reach an efficient layout
configuration focusing on the evaluation of parameters
like machine utilisation, waiting time and throughput
obtained from different simulation experiments (Negah-
ban and Smith 2014). Furthermore, our results reveal
that global positioning systems like RTLS can map the
movement within a factory advising about the need to
implement a re-layout. Here, no other scientific works
were identified stating this fact. Moreover, VR was found
to be used for testing virtually different layout configu-
rations allowing a fluid production flow and comfortable
motions. Our results confirmed also the use of AR to train
and give interactive maintenance assignments facilitating
TPM (Mayr et al. 2018). Furthermore, Big Data Analyt-
ics empowers TPM by predicting maintenance actions as
well as prescribing a maintenance plan. This supports Lee
et al. (2013) and Lee et al. (2015), who found that a pre-
diction capability allows maintenance to be more cost-
effective. According to Khoshafian and Rostetter (2015),
digital prescriptive maintenance is empowered by Big
Data and Analytics, avoiding potential failures that could
have serious consequences for people, environment, and
equipment. Moreover, Big Data and Analytics, and specif-
ically Descriptive Diagnostics empower Statistical Process
Control by providing a calculation of KPIs in real-time.
Our results confirm also the use of the OEE indicator
in manufacturing where advanced analytics can be used
to pinpoint possible root causes for bottlenecks (Lade,
Ghosh, and Srinivasan 2017).
5.2. Shop-floor management
Considering RQ1, our results show that One-Piece-Flow
and JIT, promoting to obtain low levels of WIP, enable a
tracking and tracing of products in real-time and hence,
the Vertical Integration of processes within a company.
Moreover, according to our results, continuous improve-
ment processes facilitate the acceptance of I4.0 imple-
mentations.
Considering RQ2, our results reveal that Autonomous
Robots empower One-Piece-Flow, Kanban and JIT. They
support Kaspar and Schneider (2015), who stated that
Autonomous AGVs empower Kanban since material sup-
ply at the shop floor level can be realised by using a


--- SAYFA 19 ---
18
M. P. CIANO ET AL.
one-container-system without the necessity to refill sev-
eral containers with the same material. Similarly, the
results confirm that Autonomous AGV can further con-
tribute to a JIT delivery to the workplace because the
material to be refilled at the workstation arrives in the
exact moment when it is needed, as stated by Mayr
et al. (2018). In this direction, scientific works by Kol-
berg and Zühlke (2015) as well as Kolberg, Knobloch,
and Zühlke (2017) showed that Smart Machines empower
Kanban mentioning the example of displays with graph-
ical user interfaces connected to the production line and
MES, which can drastically reduce the effort for updat-
ing conventional Kanban boards. In addition, our results
reveal that Process Simulation allows trying different lay-
out configurations through a virtual walk in the simu-
lated environment reaching a One-Piece-Flow and even
JIT production (Aigbedo and Monden 1996; Rosin et al.
2020).
Our research confirms the fact that Horizontal and
Vertical System Integration and specifically Machines
integrated with MES and ERP empower Kanban and JIT
(Kolberg and Zühlke 2015; Kolberg, Knobloch, and Züh-
lke 2017; Mayr et al. 2018; Rosin et al. 2020) by continu-
ously measuring material consumption and by having a
real-time awareness of machines capacity and availability.
Similarly, our results confirm that IIoT empowers
Kanban by using smartphones to support pick-to-light in
warehouses, as stated by Mayr et al. (2018).
Considering Big Data and Analytics, our results iden-
tified that Artificial Intelligence is used to level the
workstations workload according to the Heijunka prin-
ciple. This was also underpinned by Hou, Katayama, and
Hwang (2015) that used Genetic Algorithms to maximise
line efficiency and minimise the variation of work over-
load time in a mixed-model straight/U-shaped assembly
line using Heijunka.
5.3. Workforce management
Considering RQ1, problem-solving in a multifunctional
team and contests for innovative ideas can enable the
introduction of I4.0 in general. Here, no other enabling
effect of LP on I4.0 were identified.
On the other hand, regarding RQ2, our results reveal
that Simulation and specifically DT applications allow to
create a virtual Obeya-Room to enable Multifunctional
Teams with people located in different places. Here, no
reference from other scientific works was identified that
underpins this fact. Moreover, according to our results,
Autonomous Robots empower Employees Commitment by
relieving workers from repetitive and alienating tasks
while increasing the level of occupational safety (Giuliani
et al. 2010). Similarly, the case study analysis identifies
that Big Data and Analytics and specifically Descriptive
Diagnostics is used to display KPIs updated in real-time
on visual boards, which can be used during the 5 min
meeting empowering Employee Commitment.
5.4. New product development
Similarly, to the previous paragraph, this impact area
contributes most to the RQ2. Although the literature
identifies potential use of Additive Manufacturing for
small series favouring Kanban and JIT, the cases mostly
demonstrate its use for prototyping in the fields of Mod-
ularity and Customisation. Here, the case studies report
the empowering effect of Additive Manufacturing for the
production of small Customised pre-series, in line with
Kietzmann, Pitt, and Berthon (2015) who depicted the
huge potential of Additive Manufacturing in the field of
medical prosthetics. Moreover, the case studies adopted
Additive Manufacturing to manufacture prototypes to
test if Modular and standardised elements can meet cus-
tomer requirements. Scientific references also underpin
the empowering effect on Customisation (Zangiacomi
et al. 2020), by substantiating the fact of 3D printers used
to create prototypes that test whether standard and mod-
ular components can meet customer requirements. Here,
especially the application in the field of using 3D printing
for producing prosthetics can be mentioned (Bijadi et al.
2017; Hussain et al. 2018).
5.5. Supplier relationships
Based on our results and concerning RQ1, Long-Term
Supplier relationships as well as Supplier Involvement
enable a Horizontal Integration of supply chains, report-
ing the examples of shared platforms communicating the
status of material consumption in real-time as well as
suppliers that manage autonomously electronic Kanban.
The companies reported that involved suppliers are more
willing to give such a service. In literature, Camarinha-
Matos, Fornasiero, and Afsarmanesh (2017) highlight
the importance of collaborative organisational structures,
processes, and mechanisms as enablers of Horizontal
Integrations of supply chains.
Considering RQ2, Horizontal and Vertical System Inte-
gration and specifically data shared with suppliers and/or
partners through IIoT systems empower Supplier Involve-
ment. The case studies reported examples of electronic
platforms that share information about warehouses as
well as other KPIs in real-time that allow suppliers to
organise in a better way their deliveries. The usage of
common knowledge-sharing platforms that favour Hor-
izontal Integration of Suppliers has also be confirmed in
literature by Chen (2017).


--- SAYFA 20 ---
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF PRODUCTION RESEARCH
19
5.6. Customer relationships
Answering to RQ2, the case study results report that
Simulation and specifically Product Simulation empower
Modularity and Customisation because it allows to under-
stand if standardised as well as customised compo-
nents meet specific customer requirements. Similarly, as
reported in the field of New Product Development, Addi-
tive Manufacturing empowers the production of Cus-
tomised pre-series and test if Modular and standardised
prototypical elements can meet customer requirements.
5.7. Summary of original results
Figure 1 summarises the findings of our paper, emphasi-
sing the results that, to the best of our knowledge, have
not been found by previous studies.
Considering RQ1, the following results have not
been found by previous studies. Statistical Process Con-
trol enables Descriptive Analytics. Elimination of Waste
enables Autonomous Robots. 5S and VM enable Real Time
scanning with smartphone, AR as well as Autonomous
AGV. Lean Layout enables Autonomous AGV. One Piece
Flow and JIT enable Vertical Integration.
Regarding RQ2, the following results have not been
found by previous studies. Autonomous Robots empower
SMED and Standardised Work. Horizontal and Vertical
System Integration empower Statistical Process Control.
IIoT empowers SMED and Lean Layout. AR empow-
ers Lean Layout. Big Data and Analytics empower Waste
Reduction. Additive Manufacturing empowers Modular-
ity. Simulation empowers Multifunctional Team. Big Data
and Analytics empower Employees Commitment.
6. Conclusion
6.1. Contribution to theory
This paper contributes to the production research litera-
ture on the relationships between I4.0 and LP in various
significant ways.
First, we do a significant theory-building effort and
propose a comprehensive framework that shows the one-
to-one relationships between I4.0 technologies and lean
practices and vice-versa (Figure 1), focusing not only on
the company itself but also on the whole value chain
(Panizzolo 1998; Hines, Holweg, and Rich 2004; Pagliosa,
Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019; Rojko 2017). This pair-
wise framework for a LP-I4.0 integration at a practice-
technology level, which was missing in extant literature
(Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018; Rossini et al. 2019),
represents in our view a significant theoretical advance-
ment since it highlights in a synthetic but comprehensive
way all the relevant constructs (i.e. I4.0 technologies and
lean principles and practices) and their interrelationships
(Gioia and Pitre 1990; Corley and Gioia 2011). Fur-
ther research is however needed to further validate the
framework, extend it to other geographical and industrial
contexts, and empirically test all the hypothesised rela-
tionships in a wider, more heterogeneous and statistically
significant sample (see Section 6.3).
Second, our paper confirms previous studies that pos-
tulate that the relationship between I4.0 technologies
and LP is in both directions, i.e. (a) I4.0 affects LP and
(b) LP affects I4.0 (e.g. Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan
2018; Pagliosa, Tortorella, and Ferreira 2019; Rossini et al.
2019), but it adds that the two paths have a different
nature. More in detail, while LP enables I4.0 (creating
opportunities for its development), I4.0 empowers LP
(leading to the achievement of self-efficacy and of best
version). This classification of enablement and empow-
erment (Dunst, Trivette, and Deal 1988) allows an easier
and more direct understanding of the links between the
two paradigms.
Third, we highlight a set of potential relationships
between I4.0 and LP, that were not highlighted by pre-
vious research (see the underlined items in Figure 1).
Some examples of these relationships are the empower-
ing effects of Autonomous Robots and IIoT on SMED
and Standardised Work, of Big Data and Analytics on
Employees Commitment, and of AR on Lean Layout, as
well as the enabling effects of Statistical Process Control
on Descriptive Analytics, of Lean Layout on Autonomous
AGV, and of One Piece Flow and JIT on Vertical Inte-
gration (see Section 5.7 for further details). While these
identified relationships deserve certainly to be tested on
a wider and more heterogeneous sample, their identifi-
cation might in our view guide future research in this
field.
Finally, our study highlights the impact of I4.0 on the
so-called ‘soft’ LP techniques, which according to a recent
review (i.e. Buer, Strandhagen, and Chan 2018) repre-
sents a significant research gap. The analysis (Table 5)
found specific effects of I4.0 technologies or charac-
teristics on Kaizen and Teamwork, and in general,
insights from companies support the idea that the gam-
ing atmosphere led by I4.0 can empower and make the
adoption of all the LP techniques and practices more
pleasant.
6.2. Contribution to practice
The findings of our study have also significant managerial
implications.
First, we identify the key concepts in the I4.0 and LP
fields (i.e. I4.0 technologies and LP principles/techniques,
respectively) (see Tables 1 and 2). These concepts might
