

--- SAYFA 1 ---
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
 
 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle  
Routing Problems with Time 
Windows: The State-of-the-Art 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Michel Gendreau 
Christos D. Tarantilis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
February 2010 
 
 
 
CIRRELT-2010-04 
 
                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
G1V 0A6 
Bureaux de Montréal : 
Bureaux de Québec :
Université de Montréal 
Université Laval 
C.P. 6128, succ. Centre-ville 
2325, de la Terrasse, bureau  2642 
Montréal (Québec) 
Québec (Québec) 
Canada H3C 3J7 
Canada G1V 0A6 
Téléphone : 514 343-7575 
Téléphone : 418 656-2073 
Télécopie  : 514 343-7121 
Télécopie  : 418 656-2624 
 
 
www.cirrelt.ca 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time 
Windows: The State-of-the-Art 
Michel Gendreau1,*, Christos D. Tarantilis2 
1 
Interuniversity Research Centre on Enterprise Networks, Logistics and Transportation 
(CIRRELT), and Department of Mathematics and Industrial Engineering, École Polytechnique 
de Montréal, P.O. Box 6079, Station Centre-ville, Montréal, Canada H3C 3A7 
2 
Department of Management Science & Technology, Athens University of Economics & 
Business, 28, Hydras Street, Athens 113 62, Greece 
Abstract. The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is a well-known 
combinatorial optimization problem of high computational complexity. It can be described 
as the problem of designing least cost routes from a depot to a set of customers of known 
demand. The routes must be designed such that each customer is visited only once by 
exactly one vehicle within a given time interval without violating capacity constraints. The 
goal is to minimize first the total number of vehicles required and second the total travel 
distance incurred. As research move towards more larger and realistic problems, the trend 
is towards the development of computationally intelligent algorithms capable of producing 
high quality solutions with reasonable computational burdens. The purpose of this survey 
is to discuss the state-of-the-art in the field of advanced heuristics proposed for solving 
large-scale problem instances. The effort is not only to provide an overview of solution 
methods, but also to identify the ingredients of success. Computational results, comparing 
the performance of different algorithms, are reported, while an analysis based on essential 
attributes, such as efficiency, effectiveness, simplicity and flexibility, is also provided. 
Keywords. Algorithms, vehicle scheduling, vehicle routing, time windows. 
Acknowledgements. Funding for this project has been provided by the Natural Sciences 
and Engineering Council of Canada (NSERC), through its Discovery Grants programs. 
Results and views expressed in this publication are the sole responsibility of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect those of CIRRELT. 
Les résultats et opinions contenus dans cette publication ne reflètent pas nécessairement la position du 
CIRRELT et n'engagent pas sa responsabilité. 
_____________________________ 
* Corresponding author: Michel.Gendreau@cirrelt.ca  
Dépôt légal – Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec, 
                      Bibliothèque et Archives Canada, 2010 
© Copyright  Gendreau, Tarantilis and CIRRELT, 2010 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
 Introduction 
Transportation logistics systems are usually large-scale in nature, while their complexity may arise 
from many different sources, such as customers, vehicles, shipments and physical infrastructure, all 
interacting in various ways. In addition, due to the continuously increasing collaboration among 
transportation companies and other logistics partners, problem instances of interest are becoming 
larger in terms of size and more complex in terms of “new” constraints and objectives. It is common 
for real life vehicle routing applications (e.g. waste collection, courier and dial-a-ride services and 
newspaper delivery) to involve the daily service of tens of hundred or even thousand customers. 
The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) is one of the core operations research and combinatorial 
optimization problem classes and it has been the object of numerous studies. Solving VRPs 
optimally or near-optimally for large-scale problem instances is of major interest. With the 
exception of the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), where instances with several thousand nodes 
can be solved optimally on a regular basis (Gutin and Punnen, 2002), instances of a VRP with more 
than one hundred customers can be intractably hard to solve optimally and exact methods are 
confined to limited-sized instances. For this reason, the literature is replete with metaheuristic 
algorithms, cooperative search methods and hybrid approaches, which stand between heuristics and 
exact optimization techniques and are capable of producing high quality solutions with 
computational time burdens reasonable for practical applications. Yet, despite the contributions and 
the progress the field has seen in recent years, many challenges still stand and new ones are 
emerging. 
Apart from efficiency, scalability and speed of solution procedures are prerequisite attributes for 
their adaptation within real life decision support systems in which the response times have to be 
short. Recently, great attention has been devoted on computational experimentation considering 
large sized data sets for different VRP variants that mimic to some extent real life conditions. Li et 
al. (2005) and Kytöjoki et al. (2007) reported results for the Capacitated VRP considering data sets 
with up to 1200 and 24000 customers, respectively. For the Heterogeneous Fleet VRP and the Open 
VRP, Li et al. (2006, 2007) conducted experiments with more than 480 customers, while for the 
VRPTW recent algorithmic developments are evaluated on the large-scale problem instances 
provided by Gehring and Homberger (1999) with a cardinality ranging from 200 to 1000 customers. 
The focus of this paper is to provide an overview and discuss the state-of-the-art in the field of 
advanced heuristics proposed to address large-scale VRPTW instances. The VRPTW is certainly 
the most studied variant of VRPs and it can be considered the prototype of the so-called “rich” 
VRPs because time window constraints require sophisticated techniques for constant time 
feasibility checks (Irnich, 2008). It occurs in several transportation logistics systems and it can be 
used to model numerous real life applications (Bodin et al., 1983). Typical large-scale VRPTW 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
1


--- SAYFA 4 ---
applications can be found in waste collection (Sahoo et al., 2005), fast food routing (Russell, 1995), 
school bus routing (Bracca et al., 1994), home delivery and technical-dispatching services (Weigel 
and Cao, 1999). One may also refer to Golden et al. (2002) for a collection of vehicle routing and 
scheduling applications from several industries, including solid waste, beverage, food, dairy and 
newspaper. 
The VRPTW can be formally stated as the problem of designing least cost routes from a depot 
to a set of geographically scattered customers of known demand. The routes must be designed such 
that each customer is visited only once by exactly one vehicle within a given time interval that 
models the earliest and the latest times during the day that service can take place. The vehicle must 
remain at the customer location during the service, and in case the vehicle arrives before the 
customer is ready to begin the service, it waits. Finally, all feasible routes start and end at the depot, 
while the accumulated quantities to deliver/collect up to any customer of a route must not exceed 
the vehicle capacity.  
The VRPTW usually has multiple objectives. The goal is to determine the minimum number of 
vehicle routes and the optimal sequence of customers visited by each vehicle, such that all 
customers are served and all constraints imposed by vehicle capacity, service times and time 
windows are satisfied. Typically, a lexicographic (hierarchical) ordering of objectives is followed. 
That is, the number of routes is first minimized and then, for the same number of vehicle routes, the 
total travel time or the total travel distance incurred by the fleet of vehicles is minimized. An 
additional objective might consider minimization of the total time spent (including vehicle's waiting 
time). In the case of m-VRPTW (fixed fleet size) the first objective is to maximize the total number 
of customers served. Herein, the focus is on solution approaches proposed for hard time windows 
following the hierarchical ordering of objectives described above. 
The VRPTW can be decomposed into two sub-problems. If the time window constraints are 
relaxed, it reduces to a bin-packing problem (or set-partitioning), while if the capacity constraints 
are relaxed, it results in a multiprocessor scheduling problem with some form of sequence-
dependent service times, as well as release times and deadlines to account for time windows. The 
complexity of the VRPTW, which is NP-hard in its general form, stems from the inherent 
complexity of its underlying constituting elements, since both are NP-complete (Garey and 
Johnson, 1979). Even the problem of finding a feasible solution for the m-VRPTW is NP-complete 
(Savelsbergh, 1985). 
Early work on the VRPTW dates back to the 1960’s. For an overview on early developments, 
we refer readers to the surveys of Golden and Assad (1986), Desrochers et al. (1988), Desrosiers et 
al. (1995), and Cordeau et al. (2002). The more recent surveys of Bräysy and Gendreau (2005a,b) 
and Bräysy et al. (2004a) review the algorithmic developments in the field of construction 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
2


--- SAYFA 5 ---
heuristics, iterative improvement heuristics, metaheuristics and evolutionary algorithms. Since the 
late 1980s, most solution approaches have been evaluated upon the medium-sized benchmark data 
sets of Solomon (1987), while recently the focus of most researchers has shifted on large-scale 
problem instances using the data sets of Gehring and Homberger (1999). Although significant 
contributions have been made regarding the Solomon’s (1987) data sets, no method can consistently 
re-produce the best-known solutions and few can find the best-known fleet size for all problem 
instances. On the other hand, the best-known results for the large-scale problem instances have been 
continuously updated for the last 9 years; however, there is still much room for improvement, 
especially in terms of effectiveness. Evidently, many solution approaches fail to provide a good 
compromise between quality and speed, while few score well on other dimensions, such as 
simplicity and flexibility. 
The main contribution of this paper is to discuss the latest research activities in the field of 
advanced heuristics proposed for solving large-scale VRPTW instances. The main effort is not only 
to provide an overview of the literature, but also to identify the ingredients of success both in terms 
of accuracy and speed. Initially, we focus on the design of neighborhoods and we discuss recent 
advances in the field of neighborhood search methods, since both the structure and the evaluation of 
neighborhoods may affect significantly the resulting performance. Afterwards, we divide the 
literature into three categories and we elaborate our analysis for each solution approach based on 
four attributes: efficiency, effectiveness, simplicity and flexibility, as originally proposed by 
Cordeau et al. (2002). Apart from the constituting elements, great attention is given to speed up 
techniques, parallel implementations, integrative and collaborative algorithmic schemes and route 
elimination strategies. To this end, computational results comparing the performance of different 
solution approaches are also reported. Finally, the main findings are summarized and conclusions 
are drawn offering pointers for future research. 
1 Neighborhood: Structure and Evaluation  
Neighborhood structures and neighborhood search methods are key algorithmic components, since 
the majority of solution methods for large-scale VRPTW instances are local search-based or make 
use of local search components. Despite their success, only a small fraction exploits the 
interrelationships between neighborhood definitions and the associated neighborhood search 
algorithms. Clearly, the neighborhood size and the speed of evaluation determine to a large extent 
the resulting efficiency and effectiveness. Ambitious large neighborhoods increase the chances of 
finding high quality solutions, but they are more expensive to explore. This is why methods for 
intelligently pruning neighborhoods are important. Proper structural design and the choice of the 
appropriate search method are ways to achieve this goal. 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
3


--- SAYFA 6 ---
Finding the best solution in a given neighborhood is itself an optimization problem. This 
problem can be solved either exactly or heuristically, using direct enumeration schemes (e.g. 
sequential search and lexicographic search) or indirect optimization algorithms (e.g. branch-and-
bound and network optimization algorithms for shortest paths or cycles). Apart from the solution 
technique, the speed of neighborhood evaluation depends also on the computational effort to 
determine the cost of a neighboring solution and checking its feasibility. Furthermore, if the search 
is enumerative there is always the flexibility to terminate the evaluation process whenever one 
improving neighbor from the set of all improving neighbor solutions has been found. In particular, 
there are three well-known strategies: the first improvement, the best improvement and the d-best 
improvement. From the average viewpoint these strategies might significantly differ in their 
efficiency, while the worst-case performance of all strategies is equivalent (Irnich, 2008).  
Since there is always the trade-off between the size and the effort needed for searching the 
entire neighborhood, effective local search implementations for solving large-scale problem 
instances should essentially utilize neighborhoods of at least manageable size. Below, both classical 
and newly developed neighborhoods are described. We focus on two major building blocks: the size 
and the evaluation of neighborhoods. Attention is given first to edge-exchange neighborhoods, edge 
handling techniques and direct enumerative search methods, while an overview of search methods 
for large neighborhoods in the context of the VRPTW is also provided. 
1.1 Node- and Edge-exchange Neighborhoods 
1.1.1 Neighborhood Definition 
Edge-exchange neighborhoods are generated by a set of operations, such as segmentation, 
inversion, permutation and concatenation, made at the level of edges, and typically their size is a 
polynomial function of the total number of customers (Funke et al., 2005). Apart from the number 
of deleted and added edges, a common way to manage the size of edge-exchange neighborhoods is 
to use a set of restricted operators. Most of these operators are structured in such a way that only 
proper move types are considered during permutation and concatenation, the length of the segments 
(or paths) is restricted during segmentation and some segments might need to be reversed during 
inversion operations. Similarly, there are operators that can be used to extend the size of a 
neighborhood structure. A typical example is the Generalized Insertion operator introduced by 
Gendreau et al. (1992, 1995), in which a local re-optimization is performed simultaneously with an 
insertion. 
Any intra-route edge-exchange neighborhood can be derived from the k-Opt neighborhood (also 
known as k-exchange) that involves the substitution of a set of k edges with a set of k other edges 
from a single route. The total number of possible k-Opt moves (including proper and non-proper 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
4


--- SAYFA 7 ---
moves) for a given k is 2k-1(k-1)!, while verifying k-optimality requires O(nk) operations. Due to the 
rapid increase of the computational requirements w.r.t k, k is limited to 2 or 3 in most cases (2-Opt 
and 3-Opt neighborhoods). The size of the 2-Opt neighborhood is quadratic and there is only one 
proper move type, while the size of 3-Opt is cubic and there are four proper move types. The only 
3-Opt move type that does not reverse any segment is the so-called Or-Opt move (Or, 1976), which 
relocates a segment of consecutive customers of length usually less than or equal to three. The size 
of the Or-Opt neighborhood is quadratic (if the length of the segment is bounded). Finally, an 
extension called inverted Or-Opt (IOpt) was introduced by Bräysy (2003) considering both the 
forward and reserve orientation of the relocated segment.  
The k-Opt* neighborhood generalizes the k-Opt one to account for multiple-routes (Potvin et al., 
1989). The idea behind the application of a 2-Opt* neighborhood is to swap the end segments 
between two routes without reversing the order of customers. The size of the 2-Opt* neighborhood 
is quadratic (Potvin and Rousseau, 1995). Similarly, the Path Insertion (also known as String 
Relocation) generalizes the Or-Opt and IOpt neighborhoods. More specifically, Path Insertion 
relocates a segment of at least two consecutive customers from one route to another considering 
both the forward and reverse orientation. The size of the Path Insertion neighborhood is cubic. 
The λ-interchange neighborhood proposed by Osman (1993) can be considered as the generic 
inter-route node-exchange neighborhood structure. It selects two subsets of customers (with 
cardinality less than or equal to λ) from two different routes and exchanges them considering all 
possible insertion positions for both routes, resulting in a neighborhood size O(n4λ). If it is required 
that the nodes be inserted in the position of the removed nodes, the size reduces to O(n2λ). Since the 
size of λ-interchange neighborhood is relatively large even for small values of λ, in the literature λ 
rarely exceeds 2 and most researchers adopt small and manageable special structured λ-interchange 
sub-neighborhoods. Typical examples are the Relocation, the Exchange and the Swap neighborhood 
of Savelsbergh (1992) and the CROSS-exchange neighborhood structure introduced by Taillard 
et al. (1997).  
The idea behind the Relocation move (also known as Insertion) is the removal of one node from 
its current position and its insertion into a different position of the same or a different route. The 
size of the Relocation neighborhood is quadratic. In an Exchange (or Swap) local move, one node is 
moved from one route to another and a second node is moved from the latter to the former. On the 
other hand, the CROSS-exchange move involves the exchange between two segments of any length 
(or less than a predefined length) from two different routes. The size of the CROSS-exchange 
neighborhood is O(n4). Finally, several structures have been proposed in the literature that extend 
the above described neighborhoods, such as inverted CROSS (Bräysy, 2003), GENI-exchange and 
GENICROSS (Bräysy, 2004b). 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
5


--- SAYFA 8 ---
1.1.2 Direct Enumeration Search Methods & Acceleration Techniques 
Direct enumeration search methods for O(nk) neighborhoods typically work on a search tree with at 
least k levels by adding and/or deleting edges and evaluate the results of these operations directly. 
The latter requires the implicit or explicit construction of neighbors, the computation of cost (or 
gain compared to the current solution) and the test of whether the neighbor is feasible or not. The 
goal is to reduce the search effort (perform less than nk operations) by pruning early in the search, or 
by finding the local best neighbor as quickly as possible without scanning all neighboring solutions 
explicitly (Funke et al, 2005). The critical criteria for the reduction of the search space are cost and 
feasibility, i.e., if some branch of the search tree does not contain any feasible or improving 
neighbor, it can be pruned. In the literature, there are two main approaches, namely the 
lexicographic search (Kindervater and Savelsbergh, 1997) and the sequential search (Irnich, 2008) 
based on feasibility and cost reductions, respectively.  
Lexicographic search is based on the systematic way in which segments are built. In particular, 
during segmentation the k edges for removal are chosen in a lexicographic order (the order in which 
edges currently appear in the routing plan) using k nested loops. Having fixed the first edge, all 
other edges selected for removal are chosen sequentially, such that exactly one edge is added or 
deleted from one segment in every loop. Thus, from one neighbor to the next only the last selected 
edge is shifted on and on. The latter implies that information from the previous segmentation, 
permutation, inversion and concatenation operations can be used to check the feasibility of the 
current move and to prune the search early (Savelsbergh, 1992). In this regard, lexicographic search 
yields the sufficient conditions to prove that if the current solution is infeasible, the entire following 
sequence is infeasible, too. Furthermore, if for every segment all necessary routing and scheduling 
information is efficiently updated and maintained in a set of global variables, then the feasibility 
check of a move can be made in constant time instead of O(n) (Kindervater and Savelsbergh, 1997).  
Sequential search is a gain-oriented search procedure that exploits the cost and cyclic 
independence of neighborhoods. The notion is to decompose a move into partial moves (whose sum 
is the overall gain of the move) and to examine all relevant partial moves of the cyclic independent 
neighborhood recursively. If the sum of a sequence of gains is positive, then there exists a cyclic 
permutation of these gains, such that every partial sum is positive. The latter can be generalized to 
restrict the search considering only those branches where the sum of gains of the first p≤k partial 
moves has to be greater than pG*/k, where G* is a lower bound of the overall gain. Contrary to 
lexicographic search, the elements are selected w.r.t to a set of so-called neighbor lists sorted in the 
order of increasing cost. One disadvantage is that feasibility of a move cannot be checked before all 
elements of the partial moves have been specified (Funke et al., 2005).  
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
6


--- SAYFA 9 ---
So far, most local search based solution methods for large-scale VRPTW instances adopt 
lexicographic search based approaches for the evaluation of edge-exchange neighborhoods. To this 
end, a generic implementation of sequential search for the VRPTW has been recently illustrated by 
Irnich (2008). According to his results on the data sets of Gehring and Homberger (1999), there is a 
significant speedup when lexicographic search is replaced by sequential search, especially for the 
long-haul less constrained problem instances. Similar results were observed on a small set of 10 
very large-scale problem instances with up to 10,000 customers.  
One way to further accelerate sequential search-based approaches is to use restricted candidate 
lists instead of complete neighbor lists. These candidate lists can be either time-oriented or distance-
oriented, i.e., candidate lists that contain for each customer i a list of the l nearest customers from i. 
A typical paradigm is the granularity concept introduced by Toth and Vigo (2002). During the 
evaluation process, they assume that the first added edge must belong to a candidate list. The latter 
contains edges whose length is below a certain threshold that varies during the search process in an 
effort to intensify or diversify the search. Effective implementations of time-oriented candidate lists 
for both medium and large-scale VRPTW instances are provided by Ibaraki et al. (2005, 2008) and 
Hashimoto et al. (2008). 
In general terms, time windows are a hard constraint to deal with, since it combines routing with 
scheduling aspects. Checking the feasibility of a route in a straightforward way (looping over all 
nodes) requires at least linear time. A typical way is to reduce the computational complexity is to 
treat segments as nodes (Kindervater and Savelsbergh, 1997). The main idea is to reduce the 
original graph by contracting entire sequences of nodes into objects (called macronodes) with a 
limited number of properties summing up all the information needed to evaluate solutions. The new 
graph is much like the old one, i.e., a time window is associated to each object and a travel time to 
each edge connecting objects. In the VRPTW literature, most implementations follow similar 
approaches for testing feasibility. For a formal description of the macronodes approach we refer to 
Cordone and Wolfler (1996). 
Finally, updating mechanisms can be considered as alternative acceleration techniques. The 
effect of any node- or edge-exchange move is limited to the routes it modifies. Thus, it is actually 
unnecessary to evaluate all neighbors at each step. It is adequate to keep the feasible improving 
exchanges and their gain in a data structure. Once a move is executed, all those involving modified 
routes are removed from the data structure and re-evaluated again, whereas the others need not to be 
updated, since they remain feasible and alter the objective function by the same amount (Cordone 
and Wolfler-Calvo, 2001). As mentioned by Repoussis et al. (2009), such updating mechanisms are 
particularly effective especially for large-scale short-haul problem instances with tight time window 
constraints. 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
7


--- SAYFA 10 ---
1.2 Large Neighborhoods 
Neighborhoods of exponential size and neighborhoods that are too large to search explicitly 
(enumerate and evaluate all neighbors) in practice, are generally considered to be large 
neighborhoods. Such large neighborhood structures allow a more thorough exploration of the 
search space, and the possibility of reaching directly high quality solutions is thus higher. However, 
a large neighborhood does not necessarily produce a more effective local search-based procedure 
unless one can search the neighborhood effectively (Ahuja et al., 2000). As mentioned by Gendreau 
and Potvin (2005), large-size neighborhoods are attractive only if they are coupled with filtering 
techniques aimed at focusing the search on promising regions, given that a complete evaluation of 
the entire neighborhood is costly. Typical examples are the cyclic-exchange neighborhood proposed 
by Thompson and Psaraftis (1993) and the ejection chain concept suggested by Glover (1992). 
The cyclic-exchange neighborhood generalizes in a sense the k-exchange one. The main idea is 
to improve the cost of a set of routes by transferring a small number of demands among routes 
cyclically. Neighboring solutions are obtained by transferring k single elements among subsets (or 
routes) of a solution, where k varies from 1 to K (the maximum number of elements). Let a solution 
containing m routes and ρ denote a cyclic permutation of a subset of {1,..., m}. The simultaneous 
transfer of demands from a route rj to rρ(j) for each j is a cyclic transfer. If the cyclic permutation has 
a fixed cardinality b then the b-cyclic k-transfer neighborhood is obtained.  
Identifying the optimum cost-decreasing cyclic exchange is computationally intractable. A 
possible alternative is to decompose the very large neighborhood into a set of partial moves that 
explicitly map to the decision variables of an auxiliary optimization problem defined on a network. 
The latter is called an improvement graph and can be used to implicitly search the neighborhood via 
appropriate network optimization algorithms. The improvement graph of interest is defined w.r.t. a 
feasible partition of S (the set of routes) and is denoted as G(S). Let S[aj] denote the subset 
containing the elements aj. G(S) is a directed graph with n nodes, where each node i corresponds to 
the element ai∈S. A directed arc (i; j) in G(S) signifies that element ai leaves its current subset and 
moves to the subset containing element aj, that is, the subset S[aj], and simultaneously the element 
aj leaves S[aj]. As such, a cost-decreasing cyclic exchange w.r.t. S corresponds to a negative cost 
subset-disjoint (directed) cycle in G(S). The problem of finding a negative cost subset-disjoint cycle 
is NP-complete, and thus, only heuristic methods are adequate. Thompson and Psaraftis (1993) used 
a polynomial-time approximation to calculate the arc costs and restricted the subsets using small 
negative cost cycles. A more effective technique for identifying negative cycles is proposed by 
Ahuja et al. (2000, 2001). Their method modifies the well-known label-correcting algorithm for the 
shortest-path problem (from one node to all other nodes), where each directed path maintained is a 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
8


--- SAYFA 11 ---
subset-disjoint path. A similar approach considering alternative heuristic search strategies for 
finding shortest cycles was proposed by Gendreau et al. (2006).  
Ejection Chains (EC) are based on the concept of generating compound moves, leading from 
one solution to another, by linked steps in which changes in selected elements cause other elements 
to be “ejected from” their current state, position or value assignment (Glover, 1992, 1996). The idea 
is to move towards intermediate-reference structures before moving to another solution, instead of 
moving directly from one solution to another. The reference structure resembles the solution 
structure, but allows violation of certain types of constraints. Using a set of predefined transition 
rules, moves are generated from feasible solutions to reference structures, from one reference 
structure to another and back from reference structures to solutions. Clearly, a certain amount of 
infeasibility is introduced into the initial solution, which has to be “ejected” to end up with a new 
feasible trial solution. However, the ejection of infeasibility can be delayed by moving to other 
reference structures first to create a chain effect. As such, at each level (depth) trial solutions are 
available, while for a given depth the goal is to find the best trial solution observed along chains. 
Reference structures proposed by Glover (1996) are the Stem and Cycle and its generalization, the 
Doubly Rooted Stem and Cycle, while Sontrop et al. (2005) proposed a Constrained Doubly Rooted 
structure for the VRPTW. 
A more frequently used type of EC is the so-called node-ejection chains. The notion is to 
combine series of node-exchanges into a compound move. The latter refers to the removal of a node 
from one route and the re-insertion of this node into a different route, by first removing another 
node from the latter. The removal and re-insertion operations are repeated, until the last ejected 
node is either inserted into the position left empty by the first removed node or it is inserted freely 
into any position of a route that does not intersect with the chain. Thus, for each root node, a tree is 
formed in which leaves denote nodes that can be freely inserted into other positions of the same or 
of different routes assuming an empty intersection with the tree. The main difference between node-
ejection chains and cyclic exchanges is that only one node is shifted within a partial move of the 
former, while the ordering of the nodes in the new route of the latter might be completely different 
(Funke et al., 2005). 
The search for cost-decreasing node-ejection chains can be made via a depth or a breadth search 
technique, iterating all chains for each root node. Clearly, heuristics can be also employed, using 
topological parameters to restrict the search, such as maximum depth and width of the tree. In a way 
similar to the use of cyclic improvement graph (move-composition approach) described earlier, 
Gendreau et al. (2006) modeled the task of finding the best chain or cycle of ejection/insertion 
partial moves as a constrained shortest path problem. The latter is solved heuristically using an 
adaptation of the all-pairs Floyd-Warshall shortest path algorithm along with a priori fixing 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
9


--- SAYFA 12 ---
ordering strategies. On the other hand, Caseau et al. (1999) adopted a domain-dependent Constraint 
Programming (CP) search approach equipped with the Limited Discrepancy Search (LDS) heuristic 
pruning technique proposed by Harvey and Ginsberg (1995). 
CP is a paradigm for representing and solving a wide variety of problems. Typical examples of 
search techniques that can be used within CP frameworks are depth-first search for constraint 
satisfaction and branch-and-bound for optimization. Depth-first search with constraint propagation 
work as follows. At each node of the search tree, the propagation mechanism removes values from 
the domains of constrained variables that are inconsistent with other variables. If the propagation 
mechanism removes all values from any of the variables, then there cannot be a solution in this sub-
tree and the search backtracks making a different decision at the previous choice point. Similarly, at 
each step of a branch-and-bound, a variable is chosen to instantiate and sub-problems are explored 
in turn with the variable assigned to each of its values. After each assignment constraint propagation 
occurs. This propagation accounts for all constraints, as well as for a bound on the objective 
function. During the search process, if the domain of one or more constrained variables becomes 
empty the search backtracks at the previously made assignment. Readers wishing to learn more 
about the integration of CP frameworks with local search heuristics are referred to Pesant and 
Gendreau (1999). 
Instead of exploring completely the search tree or truncating the search to a limited number of 
backtracks, one could use within the CP framework an LDS technique that prunes heuristically the 
unpromising branches. The idea behind LDS is to explore the search tree in order of increasing 
number of discrepancies, where a discrepancy refers to the assignment to a variable of a value that 
is not the best according to the value ordering heuristic used in the search (which could be 
interpreted as the heuristic making a mistake). Therefore LDS can be viewed as exploring the 
search tree in waves, with each successive wave allowing the heuristic to make more mistakes (Bent 
and Van Hentenryck, 2004). Thus, wave i explores the solutions that can be reached by assuming 
that the heuristic made i mistakes. An alternative usage of LDS is to branch only in a limited 
number of cases to those nodes of the search tree that the heuristic decision is least compelling 
(Caseau et al., 1999). 
Another very popular family of large neighborhood structures is the so-called partially 
destructive/constructive neighborhoods. The rationale is first to remove a set of customers or 
segments from the current routing schedule and then re-insert back the removed components using a 
constructive algorithm. The latter can be either an exact optimization technique (e.g., branch-and-
bound) or a simple insertion-based heuristic algorithm (e.g., cheapest insertion). There are four key 
elements that characterize partially destructive/constructive neighborhood structures: (i) the total 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
10


--- SAYFA 13 ---
number of removed customers, (ii) the corresponding customer selection criteria, (iii) the treatment 
of the remaining parts of the solution and (iv) the way the removed customers are re-inserted. 
Shaw (1998) introduced the concept of Large Neighborhood Search (LNS) within an integrated 
CP framework. LNS can be interpreted as follows: positions of some customer visits within the 
current vehicle routing schedule are relaxed and re-optimized in the best possible manner by solving 
smaller sub-problems. The set of removed customers is selected randomly with a bias towards 
groups of related customers (geographically close with similar demand and starting time for 
service). These customers are then re-inserted back to the solution at optimal cost. The re-insertion 
process is performed using an LDS-based branch-and-bound search technique (branching against 
the best insertion) with the limit on the bound set at the cost of the solution before the relaxation 
took place. Finally, during this local search process, if a number of consecutive non-improving 
attempted moves are observed, the number of customers removed is increased. This gradual 
expansion of the neighborhood shares many similarities with the Variable Neighborhood Search 
metaheuristic solution framework of Mladenović and Hansen (1997). 
Rousseau et al. (2002) introduced three CP-based LNS neighborhoods, namely LNS-GENI, 
Naive Ejection Chains (NEC) and SMAll RouTing (SMART). The basic idea behind LNS-GENI is 
to extend the basic LNS scheme and to account in addition for re-insertion positions between non- 
consecutive customers. The customers to be removed are chosen randomly with a bias towards 
customers generating the longest detours. For the re-insertion of customers, a first fail strategy is 
followed attempting the insertion of the most constrained customers first. On the other hand, NEC 
is used primarily for removing a particular customer from a route rather than reducing the distance 
cost. The customers with the larger detour from the target route are selected first for ejection. This 
choice increased the probability of reducing the travel distance and creates a larger temporal space 
for the re-insertion of a customer. Finally, SMART removes a set of edges instead of customers 
forming an incomplete solution. The removed edges can be either selected in a consecutive fashion 
or randomly with a bias towards long edges. 
Earlier, Russell (1995) proposed a neighborhood structure that removes up to four customers 
and reinserts them using partial enumeration, combined with the parallel insertion heuristic of 
Potvin and Rousseau (1993). Similar neighborhood structures have been put forward by Bräysy 
(2003), namely the intra-route O-Opt and the inter-route Insert Related Parallel (IRP). Overall, the 
above described partially constructive/destructive neighborhoods combined either with insertion-
based heuristics or optimization-based techniques are often employed successfully within advanced 
heuristics for solving both small and large-scale VRPTW instances. 
A natural avenue to speed-up neighborhood search algorithms is to introduce spatial and 
temporal decoupling in an effort to define sub-problems that can be optimized independently and 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
11


--- SAYFA 14 ---
reinserted into an existing solution. Bent and van Hentenryck (2007) proposed a so-called 
randomized adaptive spatial decoupling (RAND) utilizing the LNS of Shaw (1998). RAND 
considers spatial decoupling and produces independent feasible sub-problems that do not share 
customers or vehicles. It views the customer region as a circle and randomly selects a wedge to 
define the sub-problem. Initially, it collects the vehicles serving customers within the wedge and 
also considers all other customers served by these vehicles to define the sub-problem. In an effort to 
produce sub-problems with equal densities of customers two angles are defined for each wedge. 
The RAND-LNS has been successfully applied on large-scale VRPTW instances. The major 
advantage of RAND is that it does not depend on the instance data and it is independent from the 
underlying optimization algorithm. Similarly, spatial decoupling acceleration techniques have been 
also utilized by Mester et al. (2006). 
2 Advanced Heuristics for the VRPTW 
The VRPTW has generated substantial research efforts and it is certainly the most well studied 
vehicle routing and scheduling problem. As research moves toward more realistic sized problems 
and research for large-scale optimization is receiving more and more attention, the focus of most 
researchers has shifted to large-scale problem instances. During the last decade, a plethora of well 
performing solution approaches have appeared in the literature. Overall, the field seems to have 
reached a certain level of maturity and the literature can be roughly divided into three categories: 
metaheuristic algorithms, parallel and cooperative search methods and hybrid optimization 
algorithms. We now examine the methods proposed in each category to solve large-scale VRPTW 
instances. 
2.1 Metaheuristic Algorithms 
As stated by Osman and Laporte (1996) “a metaheuristic is formally defined as an iterative 
generation process which guides and subordinates heuristics by combining intelligently different 
concepts for exploring and exploiting the search space, while learning strategies are used to 
structure information in order to find efficiently near-optimal solutions”. Tabu Search (TS) (Glover, 
1986), Evolutionary Algorithms (EA) (Bäck et al., 1997), Iterated Local Search (ILS) (Lourenço et 
al., 2002) and Variable Neighborhood Search (VNS) (Mladenović and Hansen, 1997) are typical 
examples of metaheuristic algorithms successfully adapted and implemented for the VRPTW.  
Bräysy (2003) was one of the firsts to propose methods aimed at solving large-scale VRPTW 
instances. In this paper, he presents a deterministic multi-phase Variable Neighborhood Descent 
(VND) approach. Initially, a set of solutions is produced using a hybrid construction heuristic 
similar to the one suggested by Russell (1995). Next, a breadth-first node-ejection chain approach is 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
12


--- SAYFA 15 ---
applied for route elimination, coupled with a particularly effective intelligent reordering insertion 
mechanism. To this end, a subset of solutions with minimum fleet size is selected and improved via 
a VND local search scheme. The latter encapsulates four parameterized inter- and intra-route 
neighborhoods, namely I-CROSS, IRP, I-Opt and O-Opt. A novel feature is the use of twin-variable 
structures in which the parameter values used to define the neighborhood structures are modified 
after each successful cycle in addition to the traditional neighborhood change scheme. Finally, a 
modified objective function (total route duration in particular) is considered for diversification 
during the local search process, if the search stagnates for a certain period. 
This was quickly followed by another paper (Bräysy et al., 2004b) in which was presented a 
two-phase multi-start approach combined with a Threshold Acceptance (TA) (Dueck and Scheurer, 
1990) post-optimization algorithm. As in Bräysy (2003), a cheapest insertion heuristic is used in the 
first phase to generate initial solutions using different parameter settings, while a so-called Injection 
Tree (IT) procedure is applied to minimize the fleet size. Compared to the node-ejection chains of 
Bräysy (2003), the proposed IT considers in addition simultaneous insertions and ejections of 
multiple customers. Given a subset of high quality solutions, the second phase applies I-CROSS-
exchanges according to a steepest descent iterative improvement strategy, followed by a TA post-
procedure, which applies the extended I-Opt and GENICROSS neighborhood structures.  
In 2006, Pisinger and Ropke (2006) proposed a very different approach that extended the LNS 
idea to make it adaptive. This Adaptive LNS algorithm utilizes a set of partially 
destructive/constructive neighborhoods that compete to modify the current solution in an iterative 
fashion. Two sets of heuristic operators N- and N+ are chosen to destroy (remove a number of 
customers and place them into a request bank) and re-construct the current solution (insert back 
customers from the request bank into one or more routes). The new provisional solution is accepted 
w.r.t. a Simulated Annealing (SA) (Kirkpatrick et al., 1983) criterion, while an adaptive layer 
stochastically controls the selection of operators on the basis of a roulette wheel selection scheme. 
The more an operator has contributed to the search process (by providing improvements to the 
solution), the higher is the probability that it will be chosen in the future. For diversification, a noise 
function is used within all operators. Finally, in terms of fleet size minimization, an additional stage 
prior the standard Adaptive LNS is suggested. Given an initial solution, a route is removed and all 
its customers are placed into the request bank. Next, Adaptive LNS is applied, and if a feasible 
solution that serves all customers is encountered, the procedure is repeated with a smaller fleet size 
until no feasible solution can be obtained. 
Later, Ibaraki et al. (2008) presented an ILS algorithm capable of dealing with instances with 
piecewise linear convex time penalty functions, assuming soft time windows for the customers, as 
in Ibaraki et al. (2005). Given the visiting sequence of customers served by a vehicle route, a 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
13


--- SAYFA 16 ---
Dynamic Programming (DP) procedure is used to determine the optimal service times, such that the 
penalized objective function is minimized. The proposed DP is used during the evaluation of 
neighboring solutions. The complexity for convex time penalty functions is O(δk log δk) for each 
vehicle k, while the time to evaluate a neighboring solution is O(log δmax). As in Ibaraki et al. 
(2005), the ILS local search applies restricted I-Opt, 2-Opt, 2-Opt*, Path Insertion and I-CROSS-
exchange neighborhood structures within a VND local search framework. Distance and time 
oriented neighbor-lists are also used to accelerate the neighborhood evaluation process. 
A similar ILS implementation was proposed by Hashimoto et al. (2008) for large-scale Time-
Dependent VRPTW instances. Given an initial solution, an iterative improvement local search 
heuristic is applied until no further improvement can be obtained, while the overall ILS framework 
iterates from solutions generated by perturbing the local optimum solutions obtained previously 
during the search. Their local search heuristic uses 2-Opt*, CROSS-Exchange and Or-Opt 
neighborhood structures, which are restricted in terms of size. The complexity of the modified DP 
algorithm is the same as in Ibaraki et al. (2008), despite the fact that is capable of dealing with time-
dependent travel times. An interesting feature of their implementation is the use of information 
from past DP recursions, combined also with a filtering method, in order to reduce the search effort 
during the evaluation of neighborhoods. 
A multi-parametric (1+1)-evolution strategy (ES) was proposed by Mester et al. (2006). At first, 
five solutions are generated via a hybrid parallel savings heuristic algorithm and the best among 
them forms the initial population. During the evolution process, a new solution is produced via a so-
called Remove-Insert multi-parametric mutation operator and the parent is replaced if an 
improvement is observed. As a result, after a number of generations a set of modified solutions is 
obtained. Three operators are used for the removal of customers (purely random removals, removal 
of one customer from each route, and random ejections from rings generated from two circles 
centered on the depot with random radiuses), while a cheapest insertion heuristic is applied for re-
insertion. Each offspring is further improved using Or-Opt, Exchange, 2-Opt local moves within a 
parameterized dynamic environment, called “adaptive variable neighborhood” (AVN). In an effort 
to prune the neighboring space, a strategy for selecting neighboring routes, called “dichotomous 
route combinations” (DRC), is also used to take advantage of the geographical division and 
topology of the vehicle routes. 
Mester and Bräysy (2005) proposed a hybrid metaheuristic algorithm. They combined Guided 
Local Search (GLS) with an ES, similar to the one described above, into a two-phase interactive 
approach. In the first phase, GLS is used to regulate a composite local search. Initially, a set of 
solutions is generated using a hybrid parallel savings heuristic with different parameter settings. 
During the construction process, Relocate and Exchange local moves are applied cyclically in a 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
14


--- SAYFA 17 ---
periodic fashion. The best solution of the set is further improved using the SA route minimization 
procedure of Bent and Van Hentenryck (2004). The GLS step considers long arcs as the feature to 
penalize, on the basis of the Relocate and Exchange neighborhoods. A particular feature is that the 
neighborhoods are restricted to the set of geographically close routes w.r.t. the current penalized 
arc, these are called “penalty variable neighborhoods” (PVN). If no further improvement can be 
obtained via the GLS, an (1+1)-evolution strategy is triggered. After a number of generations, the 
best individual is used as the starting point for the next restart of GLS. The oscillation between GLS 
and ES is repeated until some termination conditions are met. 
Hoshino et al. (2007) developed a local search heuristic controlled by chaotic dynamics 
exploiting principles of neural networks. The chaotic search applies Exchange and Relocate local 
moves. To control these local moves a set of neurons (each neuron corresponds to a customer and a 
local move) is defined. At each neuron, a gain, a refractory and a mutual reflect are assigned. The 
gain effect is related to the distance savings obtained by the neuron, the refractory effect inhibits the 
firing of a neuron that has been just fired (memory effect with an exponential decay), and the 
mutual effect adjusts a firing ratio to all neurons. The overall framework works as follows. Each 
neuron is fired at a particular time and if some necessary conditions are met, the local move that 
corresponds to this neuron is executed. The neurons are updated asynchronously, while a single 
iteration is performed whenever all neurons are updated. Finally, the route elimination heuristic of 
Bräysy (2003) is applied periodically for further improvement. 
An Arc-Guided Evolutionary Algorithm was proposed recently by Repoussis et al. (2009). The 
latter manipulates a population of individuals on the basis of an (μ+λ)-ES, utilizing a discrete arc-
based representation combined with a binary vector of strategy parameters. Following a strictly 
generational course of evolution and a deterministic selection scheme of survivors, offspring are 
produced via mutation out of arcs extracted from parents. The mutation operator is based on the 
ruin-and-recreate principle, while a multi-parent recombination operator enables the self-adaptation 
of the strategy parameters based on the appearance frequency of each arc and the diversity of the 
population. Each resulting offspring is further improved via a route elimination procedure and a 
hybrid Guided Tabu Search algorithm. Both approaches utilize the basic TS local search framework 
to drive the search process. However, the primary objective of the former is to reduce the number of 
vehicles using a hierarchical ordering of objectives similar to Bent and van Hentenryck (2004), 
while the latter explores the solution space on the basis of a GLS algorithm in an effort to reduce 
the total distance. For the evaluation of the neighboring space, a lexicographic search approach is 
followed coupled with neighborhood updating mechanisms for further acceleration. 
Hashimoto and Yagiura (2008) suggested a Path Relinking solution approach. Initially, a 
reference set of randomly generated solutions is build, while an iterative improvement local search 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
15


--- SAYFA 18 ---
using the 2-Opt*, CROSS-exchange and Or-Opt neighborhoods is applied. During relinking, the 
starting and guiding solutions are selected randomly, while a random perturbation is applied with 
some probability to the guiding solution for diversification. Among the solutions generated in the 
relinking sequence, local search is applied to a subset of local optima. In an effort to reduce the size 
and speed up the neighborhood exploration, time-oriented neighbor lists and segment length 
restrictions are also considered. During the local search process, infeasible solutions are allowed, 
while the amount of violation is penalized. Apart from capacity and temporal infeasibilities, 
frequency based penalties are also employed to account for customers that appear often in infeasible 
routes. To this end, an adaptive mechanism is used to control the weights of these penalties. For the 
computation of the penalized objective function in constant time, traveling times for particular paths 
are stored and the neighborhood is searched in a specific order, as in Ibaraki et al. (2005). 
Finally, Nagata et al. (2010) proposed a two-stage Edge-Assembly Memetic Algorithm 
(EAMA). During the vehicle minimization stage, a population of individuals is generated and the 
route elimination heuristic of Nagata and Bräysy (2009a) is applied. The main feature of the 
subsequent distance minimization stage is the so-called edge assembly crossover (EAX) operator 
(Nagata and Bräysy, 2009b). The key idea of the latter is to generate a fixed number of offspring 
solutions by combining directed edges from two parent individuals A and B selected randomly, 
such that the capacity and time window constraints are not considered and the number of routes is 
not changed. A subsequent local search-based repair procedure tries to restore the feasibility of the 
infeasible offspring. It uses a generalized cost function consisting of the distance traveled and two 
penalty components imposed on constraint violations. For evaluating time window violations, a new 
penalty function is proposed: when a late arrival occurs at a given customer of the route, time is 
“pushed backwards” in order to arrive on time (like using a time machine). By doing so, the 
schedule for the subsequent customers of the route is no longer disturbed by the time delay at the 
customer under consideration. Each time the “time machine” is used to arrive earlier at a given 
customer, the associated penalty value (push backward time) is cumulated. Feasible solutions are 
further improved via a local search procedure, which uses the 2-opt*, Or-Exchange, Relocation, and 
Exchange neighborhood structures. For the selection of survivors in each generation, an elitist 
selection scheme is adopted. 
2.2 Parallel and Cooperative Search methods 
Cooperative search is a category of parallel algorithms, in which several algorithms run in parallel 
and share information to solve an optimization problem; it is a parallelization strategy for search 
algorithms, where parallelism is obtained by concurrently executing several search programs 
(Crainic et al., 1997; Crainic and Toulouse, 2002). From a different viewpoint, teamwork 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
16


--- SAYFA 19 ---
hybridization represents cooperative optimization models consisting of many parallel cooperating 
agents, each carrying out a search in the solution space (Talbi, 2002). Three forms of parallelism 
can be applied to metaheuristics as proposed by Crainic and Toulouse (2002): (i) low-level 
(operational) parallelism aims solely to speed-up computations by accelerating steps of an 
algorithm, without any attempt at achieving a better exploration; (ii) search space decomposition 
parallelism, where each algorithm searches for a sub-solution in a sub-space by partitioning the set 
of decision variables into disjoint subsets, and (iii) multi-search threads, in which several algorithms 
perform multiple explorations for a solution in the whole space. In the latter case, each concurrent 
thread may or may not be executed by the same method. These methods may start from the same or 
different solutions and they can communicate during the search. Thus, depending on the operating 
scheme, these approaches can be either purely independent search methods or cooperative multi-
thread search strategies. Finally, communication can be made synchronously or asynchronously and 
it can be event-driven or executed at predetermined time instances. 
Le Bouthillier and Crainic (2005) presented a cooperative search method in which several 
search threads communicate through asynchronous exchanges of information using a pool of 
feasible solutions, called a solution warehouse. Communications are initiated only by individual 
threads that have access to the data sent by other threads. However, no broadcasting takes place. 
The methods involved in the cooperation scheme consist of simple construction and local search 
heuristics, including Genetic Algorithms (GA), TS algorithms (similar to Cordeau et al., 2001, and 
Gendreau et al., 1994) and a post-elimination procedure. The initial population is generated using 
different construction heuristics. Local optimum solutions are sent to the warehouse from the TS 
algorithms, while initial solutions are received either to restart or to diversify the search. On the 
other hand, the two GAs use the solution warehouse as their population. Parents are selected 
randomly and a probabilistic mutation is performed. Two crossover operators are considered, the 
order crossover (OX) and the edge recombination (ER). When required, a repair procedure restores 
feasibility by re-ordering or re-routing customers with infeasible time windows. Each offspring is 
send to the solution warehouse. Finally, the post-optimization procedure consists of a node-ejection 
chain and several local search improvement heuristics. The latter is applied to all solutions 
maintained within the warehouse. 
Later, Le Bouthillier et al. (2005) modified the cooperative search method of Le Bouthillier and 
Crainic (2005). The proposed method is a guided parallel cooperative search method and it is based 
on a central memory structure called data warehouse that contains solutions and pattern 
information. A particular feature is the introduction of a sophisticated knowledge extraction 
mechanism that is used to guide each search method (global search). The suggested mechanism 
extracts knowledge from the information exchanged among search threads in an effort to identify 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
17


--- SAYFA 20 ---
promising or unexplored regions of the solution space (coordination). For this purpose, the 
mechanism incorporates a pattern-identification procedure that is used to fix or prohibit specific 
solution attributes (arcs in particular) for part of the search. The definition of patterns is based on 
the inclusion of arcs within the solutions, while the solution warehouse is divided into subsets 
according to the quality of solutions (i.e., elite, average and worst). An arc with a high frequency in 
a given subset of solutions signals that the search methods participating into the cooperation have 
often produced solutions that use this particular arc. Each pattern contains a subset of arcs. Frequent 
pattern considers arcs with high appearance frequency, while the opposite is assumed for infrequent 
patterns. To this end, patterns can be derived from specific sub-populations, while the rate of 
appearance of a specific in-pattern among them can be also defined indicating whether an in-pattern 
is promising or not. These promising and unpromising patterns are used to constrain for some time 
the search processes, and thus induce global intensification or diversification phases. From the 
implementation viewpoint, initially two phases of diversification are launched to broaden the 
search, followed by two intensification phases that mainly focus on promising regions. 
Gehring and Homberger (1999) developed earlier a parallel two-phase evolutionary algorithm 
combined with TS. In the first phase, the ES proposed by Homberger and Gehring (1999) is 
performed following an (1,λ) evolution scheme to minimize fleet size, while in the second phase TS 
is applied for distance minimization. During the evolution process, the recombination of individuals 
is omitted, while one offspring is generated per parent via mutation. The latter uses Or-Opt, 2-Opt* 
and Exchange local moves, while the mutation code indicates for each individual the times a 
randomly selected local move is applied. For the evaluation of individuals a customized fitness 
function is utilized. It consists of two indices in a lexicographic order: the number of customers 
served by the smallest vehicle and the sum of minimal delays of these customers (relative difficulty 
of relocation).The two-phase solution approach is parallelized assuming cooperative autonomy (i.e., 
autonomous sequential search threads cooperate through the exchange of solutions), while each 
independent search thread is performed with different configuration settings. 
Later, Gehring and Homberger (2001, 2002) modified this solution approach by moving to an 
(μ;λ)-ES and a different fitness function considering also capacity infeasibilities. As in Homberger 
and Gehring (1999), the fitness function is based on four criteria; the total number of vehicles, the 
number of customers of the smallest route, the minimal delay and the total distance traveled in a 
lexicographic order. In addition to the minimal delay, the property of the so-called “caused 
overload” is also introduced. The latter indicates the extent of overload of a particular route, if the 
customer with the smallest demand of the smallest route is relocated to that route. These two fitness 
values are used to configure differently the concurrently executed search threads. However, the 
final selection of individuals is made according to the traditional VRPTW objective function. Other 
Solving Large-Scale Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows: The State-of-the-Art
CIRRELT-2010-04
18
