

--- SAYFA 1 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
139 
 
 
  
Abstract — Seeking to optimize the raw material supply for 
the assembly lines in many industries, the following case study, 
starting with a direct observation of a motorcycle factory and an 
electronics assembly factory, based on a rich theoretical analysis 
of the Lean wastes, describe the factories present processes and 
focus on developing a fast, feasible and low cost solution, 
gathering concepts of Kanban and Milk Run methodologies, 
resulting in a proposal of a system of real time management of 
the production status, allowing a better organization for the 
logistics teams of the named companies.  
 
Key words — Lean Manufacturing, Kanban, Milk Run, 
Toyota Production System.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
To attend to the demand of the current competitive world 
market, the companies constantly need to optimize their 
processes and reduce their costs to achieve bigger 
participation scopes to customers' retention.  
Since the First Industrial Revolution, companies and 
commerce held a competition looking for a common 
objective: increase their recipes, because of that, many 
philosophies and wholesale tools and the Toyota Production 
System that aimed toward the production of many items, 
according to the market demand.  
In Toyota Production System implementation, it has been 
defined by Shigeo Shingo and Taichii Ohno the so-called 
seven wastes, losses that occur daily, although many times 
are ignored by considered inherent to the processes. With this 
philosophy change, it must be searched the resolution of daily 
wastes, worthing the collaborators and optimizing processes.  
Given such need, in this work, it is going to be approached 
by the companies that have been an inspiration to the project 
elaboration, such as the problematic, analyzed through the 
direct observation in the companies mentioned above. 
The First evaluated company, which is referred as the F 
Company, is part of the electronic hub, responsible for the 
production of remote controls and Internet modem, with 
broadband and optic fiber models and signs of a pressed 
circuit. Its origin is from the State of Amazonas, being an 
outsourced assembler to many telephone companies and the 
Internet packs providers, with the medium daily production 
of thirty thousand modems and fifty thousand remote 
controls, divided in thirty-eight assembly lines. 
 
Submitted on August 23, 2021. 
Published on October 27, 2021.  
Victor Hugo Oliveira dos Santos, Federal University of Amazonas, Brazil. 
(e-mail: victorhos32 gmail.com)  
The second company, which is going to be referred to as 
the H Company, belongs to the two wheels hub, more 
specifically with the fabrication of motorcycles and 4X4 
bikes. Originally, from Japan, the multinational in question 
has a big market share in the field of its activities, with the 
medium daily production of ten thousand motorcycles in its 
assembly lines.  
Within these two scenarios so much different, it has been 
studied a primordial activity to the execution of its activities: 
the input feeding to assembly lines. Independently of being 
the final products completely different, there is the need of 
feeding the lines, where enters the study analysis, to ascertain 
the existence of some of the seven wastes of STP. 
 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
A. Total Production System 
Focused on the optimization of the factory resources, the 
applied methodology by Toyota comes up in an economically 
unstable historic moment due to the mishaps of the post 
Second World War with one mission: Reduce costs.  
[1] defines as principal objective of the Toyota Production 
System (TPS) to increase production efficiency by 
eliminating consistent and full waste. Challenging concepts 
employed by American systems focused on the production of 
many units of few products, also called as pushed production, 
the Japanese manufacturer seems that a mere copy of the 
American productive system could be dangerous, given that 
the market eventually would suffer a slowdown, by the fact 
that these models consider everything that is produced, will 
be sold.  
[2] lists seven main wastes found in the industrial reality: 
Super production; Wait; Transport; Processing; Stock; 
Movement and Rework, which must be mitigated or 
eliminated from the productive processes, aiming that the 
companies, become more competitive and increase their 
profits through the fabrication reduction costs. [3] brings that 
the need to fight the losses in the processes must be a non-
aggregation of value to the product, also as the generation of 
costs, motivating, in some situations the compromise to the 
organization competitiveness.  
[1] claims that TPS highly depends on the workers' 
collaboration, once they are going to be day-by-day 
developing productive activities on the factory floor.  
Marcelo A. de Oliveira, Federal University of Amazonas, Brazil. 
(e-mail: marcelooliveira ufam.edu.br)  
Gabriela de M. Veroneze, Federal University of Amazonas, Brazil. 
(e-mail: gveroneze ufam.edu.br) 
@
@
@
Supply Chain System Model of Components for 
Assembly Lines Based on Kanban and Milk Run 
Methodologies 
Victor Hugo Oliveira dos Santos, Marcelo Albuquerque de Oliveira, and Gabriela de Mattos Veroneze 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
140 
 
 
[4] approach that the differential of TPS is its essence, 
where development of people and exceptional teams, with the 
right directions, generates exceptional results.  
This way, the companies looking for results through the 
implementation of the TPS work methodology must value 
their teams so that they can think of continuous process 
enhancement. 
B. Lean Manufacturing 
The Lean philosophy aims to the five original principles, 
created, and applied on the TPS, to orientate the productive 
chain to increase productivity and eliminate waste, 
maximizing the profits. Specify the value: understand what 
the customer sees as value and turns it as a production goal; 
Value Stream: identify how the intern production chain will 
achieve the established value; Continuous Stream: keep the 
constancy of production and the continuous and seamless 
delivery to the customers; Pushed Production: attend to the 
demand in accordance with the market; Continuous 
enhancement: search relentlessly for optimization of 
productive processes.  
The application of these concepts needs organization, a 
new way of think over the company role, functions, and 
careers to canalize the value stream, from the conception to 
the releasing, from the request to the delivery, from the raw 
material to the clients’ hands, according to [5]. 
[6] have described the ten crucial steps to the Lean system 
implementation. These are: (1) Leadership and satisfaction of 
the client; (2) People involvement; (3) Alliance with a 
supplier; (4 (4) Source quality; (5) Management on sight; (6) 
Productive maintenance; (7) Fast tools change; (8) Push the 
production; (9) Reduce the time cycle; and (10) Control and 
reduction of costs. With the control and reduction of costs, it 
can be done a parallel with the seven wastes proposed by [7]. 
C. Just in Time 
The Just-in-Time (JIT) philosophy has emerged in Japan 
after the Second World War, where Toyota Motor Company 
has been the precursor of the pilot project, according to [8]. 
The first objective of the JIT philosophy is to eliminate waste 
in the production system, according to [7]. The Just-in-Time 
work system has as its aim what the Japanese call as “Zero 
stock”, where there is searched for working only with the 
minimum referring to equipment, raw material, inputs and 
finished product's stock. 
The biggest challenge of JIT is to achieve the essential 
index related to the minimum stock and don’t stop the 
assembly lines that demand supplies relentlessly.  
So that it can occur, there is a recurrent need of the 
understanding in real time of the product's availability and its 
deliveries together with their suppliers, consequently, a very 
strong control by Supply Chain. Avoiding stops in the 
assembly lines by lack of inputs, without the need of raw 
material, half-finished products or finished products. To the 
TPS, the stock is stopped money. 
D. Milk Runs 
The Milk Run methodology can be defined as a way of 
collection that defines a good route that aims to reduce the 
lead-time of delivery and collecting of materials, once it 
concentrates the caption of many items to the factory.  
According to [9], the Milk Run turns into a method of piece 
calling (stock management), such as Kanban, using the 
philosophy of Just-in-Time. The materials programmed 
collecting on the suppliers aimed to and is presented in Fig. 
1.  
i. Minimize the shipping cost using the total capacity of 
the transport vehicle (volume or weight), with the best 
possible scripting to the data collected on the suppliers.  
ii. Potentialize the stock turns to discipline the supplier. 
Increase the supply frequency; feed the assembler only 
with needed pieces, in the needed quantities, in the 
requested hour and in the pattern packages.  
iii. Reduce the vehicle's number in the assembler and 
improve the coordination of these vehicles in their 
factory plant. Once the pieces are collected in each 
supplier, there is a reduction in the number of how each 
vehicle of collecting has a predetermined scheduled to 
the delivery of the collected pieces, there is a bigger 
control in the service of these vehicles by the assembler, 
to the discharge of the pieces due to the labor and 
needed equipment to this operation.  
iv. Streamline the charge and discharge of materials, 
aiming to eliminate idle times when the collecting 
vehicle of pieces is in the suppliers and on the own 
assembler.  
 
 
Fig. 1. Milk Run Methodology [11]. 
 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
141 
 
 
v. Level the daily stream of materials receiving 
vi. Improve the services provided, the pattern package, the 
performance of charge/pallet and get faster on charge 
and discharge of vehicles of programmed pieces 
collecting. 
vii. Reduce the stock level on the suppliers. Obtaining the 
production program necessary to supply the assembler 
(programmed day to the collected pieces and quantity 
to be provided) the suppliers can program themselves to 
obtain their raw materials and manage the stock level 
on their chains.  
viii. Tool to the Just-in-Time system. The O Milk Run 
figures like a process to implantation of a Just-in-Time 
system within suppliers and the assembler.  
ix. Better administration of reusable packages. The 
packages are patterned, and the logistical operator 
replenishes the supplier in accordance with his needs 
and due to the collecting pieces program. Therefore, 
each supplier will have a number of certain packages 
that will be on the collecting pieces cycle (supplier - 
assembler). 
x. Reduction of damages during transportation. With the 
patterned packages and the transport operation being 
done by prepared vehicles to execute this task, reduce a 
lot the problem of damages on the pieces during 
transport and movement, through the studies carried out 
to balance the charge on the vehicle (layout) and don’t 
damage the packages, keeping always the same people, 
trained, involved in the programmed collecting, driver 
of the logistical operator, forklift drive and of the own 
assembler.  
According to [10], there are three reasons that attribute a 
huge implementation of Milk Run around the world.  
i. Clarification of the distribution costs impacts, that 
usually are included within the acquired product's 
prices.  
ii. Reduction on the cost with transportation due to the use 
of few transport batches and big material mix.  
iii. Enhancement on production lines and stock accuracy 
due to the synchronization of the deliveries. 
According to [12], with the right application of Milk Run 
methodology, the main gains acquired by the companies, 
retreats on the transportation cost, besides enabling the routes 
optimization and decreasing deliveries Lead Time, through 
the multiple collect in only one route. 
E. Kanban 
[9] says that the control tool of stock Kanban, that is 
integrant part of the Toyota Production System makes part of 
Just-in-Time wok approach, aiming only to supply the factory 
unity, according to the necessary items, within the necessary 
quantities, in the necessary moment, with the quality to 
supply the final assembly line without losses and generation 
of stocks, according to [7].  
The purpose is to keep a physical stream integrated to the 
pieces on the supply chain and streamline the delivery of the 
final product to the consumer eliminating all the losses and 
stocks. According to [13], it is to keep the products stream 
according to the demand’s need to aggregate value to the 
completely logistical chain, Pipeline. 
According to [14], the principal focus of Kanban is to 
define, with accuracy, the status about what needs to be done, 
consequently, the Kanban, when rightly applied, allows that 
tasks might be prioritized and that work streams are defined, 
such as the control over delivery lead-time of the task here in 
question. The Kanban process shows clearly the processes 
that require more attention, focusing on the risk reduction of 
no attendance, which allows a bigger flexibility to define 
priority actions of a team, related to their deliveries and 
demands. 
 
III. METHODOLOGY 
Initially, it has carried out the consultation to the literature 
that fitted on a basis to the initial analysis over the 
problematic referring to the possible wastes commonly found 
in the industrial reality. Therefore, through direct 
observation, it has been established the concepts acquired on 
the bibliographic revision.  
Through a study case, qualitative research over the feeding 
processes of assembly lines has been carried out and a 
proposal of idealized enhancement, on behalf of daily 
activities development optimization. 
A. Model Development 
In this spot for the work, it is going to be approached by 
the problematic, analyzed through the direct observation in 
two companies of Manaus Industrial Hub, such as the 
solution proposal directed to the resolution mentioned above. 
B. Study Scenario 
Initially, it has been evaluated the functioning of the 
components feeding to two assembly lines, aiming to identify 
potential enhancements on a Milk Run methodology. 
 
IV. FINDINGS AND DISCUSSIONS 
A. Activities Analysis 
Analyzing the feeding raw material method along the 
assembly lines of the company H, according to Fig. 2, it is 
observed the presence of two feeding methods: one by aerial 
transport to pieces of big aggregate, and that has production 
in-house synchronized with the assembly line, avoiding the 
accumulation of stock, besides feeding by baskets and cars, 
usually about small pieces and components acquired from 
external suppliers. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Assembly Line Company H [15]. 
 


--- SAYFA 4 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
142 
 
 
About the feeding functioning by baskets and cars, there is 
a specific sector responsible for storing, counting, movement, 
delivery and inputs control referred to the assembly lines, 
according to a scheme represented on Fig. 3.  
This sector is far around two kilometers of the line, 
localization justified by the fact that all the components that 
must be delivered come from many other productive sectors 
spread by the factory, so the feeding sector stays in a strategic 
area that eases the delivery truck movement. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Company H Feeding Stream. 
 
An analysis way of the consumption status to the next 
request is given by the production follow-up, since there is a 
quantity pre-established by motorcycle items, it’s done the 
calculation through the following formula,  
 
 
 
 
𝐸= (𝑄𝑚∗ ∑𝐼𝑚) − 𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑚𝑢𝑚 𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘 
 
(1) 
 
where:  
E = delivery; 
Qm = Quantity of material on the basket; 
Im – Used items by motorcycle. 
Besides, conceptually, present accuracy and not occurring 
lines stop caused by the lack of material supply, it is necessary 
to evaluate the concept referred to the efficiency of such a 
process. Shingo points out that “invisible” loss occurs on day-
to-day activities.  
Now analyzing the company F condition, is found thirty-
four assembly lines, where the supply delivery functioning is 
given by around two to three collaborators named “feeders”, 
these people, according to this function, walk through the 
assembly lines, observing or listening from the assemblers 
about what the next to be finished. Then, they go to the 
responsible by the warehouse, where are kept the 
components, do the request of the items and later take it to the 
assembly line, according to what is indicated on Fig. 4.  
This path is given most of the time with the operator 
carrying input boxes at the post regarding on the layout. The 
feeders are also responsible by doing the boxes of non-
finished products movement to the transporter that take them 
to the warehouse, where they will be stored, tied to the 
clients’ requests and sent to the destination. 
Evaluating each line has three collaborators, on the worst 
scenario, only to inputs reposition activities, within thirty-
four assembly lines that work on three production shifts, it 
can be concluded that company F has on its personal board, 
three hundred and six people only to movement and input 
feeding activities. Such a great board like this, inevitably, 
makes questions show up about the process effectiveness, 
specially what refers to the collaborators needs given by the 
lines. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Company F Assembly Line [16]. 
 
B. Proposed Solution 
In both scenarios, it’s noticeable the need to evaluate a way 
more efficient to do the assembly line feeding, in a way to 
avoid the stock accumulation by line (work in process), that 
decreases the movement of cars and collaborators who is 
accurate according to the requested demand by the process.  
This way, this study proposes that a simple system blends 
the concepts of Kanban and Milk Run. The concept behind 
the basic idea is: Once it treats of baskets or product boxes 
with pre-established weights because of the present elements 
quantity, it is going to be used a balance that can generate 
logs, those are information’s that are a transcript on a more 
system to be managed by the responsible of the assembly 
lines feeding.  
The idea is similar to a supermarket balance, where 
determined items are weighted. Its weight is converted to a 
numerical value by the multiplication of the value of the 
product’s kilo and at last. It has given the final value to the 
client.  
On the proposed application, the baskets and boxes would 
be put-on balances, with this, it could be guessed that one 
1000 pieces basket of squared-nuts of weld from the supplier 
x, for example, would have the weight 1,8±0,142 kg and after 
being consumed by the process, the weight would reduce 
proportionally, enabling the system analysis on real time of 
the value present at each step of the process through kanban. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Weighing Reading System [17]. 
 
Subdivided into three categories: OK, GENERATES 
REPOSITION 
REQUESTS 
AND 
CRITIC 
STOCK 


--- SAYFA 5 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
143 
 
 
PROCESS, determined categories according to each 
evaluated item, in a way that the sector responsible by the 
inputs feeding can control, in real time, the consumption of 
the assembly line, enabling that it can be organized by item, 
by post and line. This way, once it is known the exact line 
status, the sector can determine a way of how to feed, only in 
one journey, all the posts that need to resupply, what would 
define a milk run delivery system, using fewer labor resources 
and with higher efficiency, according to Fig. 6. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Feeding System Proposal. 
C. Results Analysis 
Once the aim of this study is only the proposal of solutions, 
the results analysis is given through the results evaluation 
through the total implementation of the deliveries’ 
methodology, also as the suggestions to its integration to the 
production and failures prevention. 
D. Expected Results 
Evaluating the critic situation, regarding company F, the 
expectation is that occurs 67% reduction across the personnel 
board employed, exclusively, to movement activities of the 
pieces on the three production shifts.  
The economic impact can be provided based on the 
collected data with the company F, shown on Fig. 7, regarded 
to the bonuses granted to the collaborators with the legal costs 
inherent to the nocturnal industrial activity that embraces the 
second and third shifts. 
The value 67% refers to the possibility of a collaborator to 
guarantee the complete feeding of an assembly line, which 
mostly are “twins”, that is, they have the same structure and 
do the assembly of identical items, simultaneously. 
With the provided economy with the reduction of two 
hundred and four collaborators of the personnel board, to the 
company F, the merit of this enhancement would be the value 
around R$ 501.525,16 monthly (around U$ 91.000,00), 
enabling on investments with the necessary structure to 
project implementation, besides investments on equipment 
that eases the items movements, such as cars and tugs.  
To the company H, the principal merit would be to gain 
efficiency and increase security, as there would be a drastic 
decrease in the movement of tugs and car pieces, what would 
decrease the collision risks with other collaborators who 
transmitted by the assembly line, the delivery of more one 
item in the same shipment and the collaborator time 
valorization, enabling to face new challenges and activities, 
such as more accurate control of the company's stock.  
By optimizing the accuracy of the stock, the activities of 
sectors related to fiscal parts, since given the legislation that 
governs Manaus Free Zone, also known as “Block K” 
dismemberment Federal Revenue that makes recurring audits 
as to the decrease of items produced to fee’s control granted 
to companies in the city of Manaus, thus avoiding possible 
fines that the company could suffer. 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
Blending the theoretical concepts regarding the waste’s 
losses, rational utilization of productive inputs, economic 
merit efficiency optimization, the current study, even though 
it portrays an execution proposal, brings a big reflection:  
- Are the daily factory floor activities being evaluated 
strategically?  
Besides that, it can be embraced the premise that the 
process optimization and tools analysis can be reevaluated, 
blended and applied in different ways, looking for results that 
are necessary to business reality.  
In parallel to the Industrial Revolutions, the companies that 
did not adapt ended up losing space on market and, 
eventually, perished to the competitors that always adopted 
new strategies to the execution of their activities. In this case, 
the re-interpretation about the use of Kanban and Milk Run 
tools enables the companies F and H ways to reduce their 
costs, increase efficiency and, overall, directs time to their 
collaborators to activities that aggregate value to the final 
client.  
Although, this study also has great development potential, 
not only on the systematic creation, but also on the applicable 
part, once a field system would allow an even clear vision 
around the real team needs, besides the failures and 
optimization potential.  
Thus, it stands as a challenge to the academic community 
and to the companies, in loco application, its development 
and maturation. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors thank the Production Engineering Department 
(DEP) of the Federal University of Amazonas (UFAM) for 
their support and structure.  
Special acknowledgement to the institutions and people 
involved to the final consolidation of this work that has been 
authorized through the agreement 001/2020 from the 
Cooperação Técnico-Científica celebrated between Fundação 
Universidade do Amazonas (FUA), Fundação de Apoio ao 
Ensino, Pesquisa, Extensão e Interiorização do IFAM 
(FAEPI) and the company Samsung Eletrônica da Amazônia 
LTDA (SEDA-M), within the project’s scope of capacitation 
and research, which has been done by the academic unity FT-
UFAM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- SAYFA 6 ---
 
 
 
 
European Journal of Engineering and Technology Research 
ISSN: 2736-576X 
 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2021.6.6.2569 
  
Vol 6 | Issue 6 | October 2021 
144 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Financial Results. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] T. Ohno, Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production. 
New York: Productivity Press, First Edition, 176 p., 1998. 
[2] S. Shingo, A Study of the Toyota Production System. New York: 
Productivity Press: 257 p., 1989. 
[3] C. P. Machado and V. A. G. Tondolo, Perda por ruptura em gôndola: 
uma análise do Sistema Toyota de Produção, na indústria alimentícia e 
no varejo supermercadista. Revista Gestão da Produção Operações e 
Sistemas, V. 9, n. 3, p. 15, 2014. 
[4] J. K. Liker and D. Meier, The Toyota Way Fieldbook: A Practical 
Guide for Implementing Toyota's 4Ps. McGraw-Hill Companies, First 
Edition, 475 p., 2008. 
[5] J. P. Womack, D. T. Jones, and D. Ross, The Machine That Changed 
the World: The Story of Lean Production-- Toyota's Secret Weapon in 
the Global Car Wars That Is Now Revolutionizing World ... That Is 
Now Revolutionizing World Industry. Free Press, First Edition, 327 p., 
2007. 
[6] S. F. T. Rago, E. C. Júnior, J. M. Banzato, and R. A. Moura, 
Atualidades na gestão da manufatura. São Paulo: IMAM, 2003. 
[7] S. Shingo, The Shingo Production Management System: Improving 
Process Functions. New York: Productivity Press, First Edition, 238 p., 
1992. 
[8] D. F. Tubino, Manual de planejamento e controle da produção. São 
Paulo: Atlas, 1997. 
[9] D. A. Moura and R. C. Botter, Caracterização do sistema de coleta 
programada de peças, Milk Run. RAE eletrônica, Vol. 1, No. 1, p. 1-
14, 2002. 
[10] T. Nemoto, K. Hayashi, and M. Hashimoto, Milk-run logistics by 
Japanese automobile manufacturers in Thailand. Procedia-Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, Vol. 2, No. 3, p. 5980-5989, 2010. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2010.04.012. 
[11] CCA Express, Sistema Milk Run de Coletas Programadas. Available 
at: <https://www.ccaexpress.com.br/blog/sistema-milk-run-de-coletas-
programadas/>. 
[12] P. Setiani, H. Fiddieny, E. B. Setiawan, and D. E. Cahyanti, Optimizing 
delivery route by applying milkrun method. In: Conference on Global 
Research 
on 
Sustainable 
Transport 
(GROST 
2017), 
2018. 
https://doi.org/10.2991/grost-17.2018.65. 
[13] M. J. Ploos van Amstel, Managing the pipeline effectively. Journal of 
Business Logistics, v. 11, n.2, p. 1-25, 1990. 
[14] H. Lei, F. Ganjeizadeh, K. P. Jayachandran, and P. A. Ozcan, Statistical 
analysis of the effects of Scrum and Kanban on software development 
projects. Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, v. 43, p. 
59-67, 2017. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rcim.2015.12.001. 
[15] C. De Biasi Comunicação Audiovisual, Moto Honda da Amazônia. 
Available at: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iqToIrbvRo8>. 
[16] Flex 
Industries, 
Conheça 
nossos 
processos. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.flex-am.com.br/?pg=fotos. 
[17] Absoluta 
Balanças, 
Balanças 
Filizola. 
Available 
at: 
<http://www.absolutabalancas.com.br/filizola/platina.htm>. 
 
 
Victor Hugo dos Santos is a student is a student of 
Production Engineering at the Federal University of 
Amazonas, and researcher under SUPER project. 
 
 
Marcelo Oliveira is an Adjunct Professor of 
Department of Production Engineering and 
member of Master Program in Production 
Engineering, Federal University of Amazonas. He 
has published several Research Papers related to 
Engineering area. 
 
 
 
Gabriela Veroneze is an Adjunct Professor, 
Department of Production Engineering and 
member of Master Program in Production 
Engineering, Federal University of Amazonas. 
She has published several Research Papers related 
to Engineering area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
