

--- SAYFA 1 ---
In-plant Milk Run Decision Problems 
 
Mohammed Alnahhal, Asep Ridwan, Bernd Noche  
Transport systems and logistics  
Duisburg-Essen University 
Duisburg, Germany 
 
 
 
Abstract— This study investigates the general framework of the 
decisions in in-plant milk run systems, and also the other related 
decisions that affect or affected by milk run systems. Emphasis 
was placed on lean-oriented decisions and objectives. This was 
accomplished conceptually using extensive literature review. The 
study shows that there is a lack of studies regarding in-plant milk 
run system as a whole, and also in certain areas of the system 
such as manual feeding. The study shows also a tendency in some 
studies to deviate from lean manufacturing philosophy looking 
for optimality based on restrictive objectives. Furthermore, some 
differences in literature in defining some concepts related to in-
plant milk run system were illustrated. The study presents new 
directions for future research especially those related to fast-
response delivery in very changing environments. 
Keywords— In-plant milk run; decision making, lean 
manufacturing, JIT 
I. 
 INTRODUCTION  
In manufacturing facilities, there are two types of activities, 
namely, making goods and operations needed to deliver these 
goods. The second type is “logistics”. If it is inside the 
boundaries of the facility, containing the material flows 
between plants and between production lines within a plant, 
then it is under control of the management of the company. 
However inbound and outbound logistics are outside the 
control of this management [1]. 
Production logistics is one of the most important aspects 
that must be optimized to enhance the performance of 
assembly systems. Automotive companies started to utilize the 
concept of in-plant milk run, in which a train or manual cart 
takes bins full with parts from inventory position (a store) to 
consumption points (stations) in a predetermined route and 
schedule [2]. So, a group of stations is supplied by the same 
train in the same route and in the same service period. Bozer 
and Ciemnoczolowski [3] described milk run systems as 
“route-based, cyclic material handling systems that are used 
widely to enable frequent and consistent deliveries of 
containerized parts on an as-needed basis from a central storage 
area (the ‘supermarket’) to multiple line-side deposit points on 
the factory floor”. Fig 1 shows the components of milk run 
system. This system depends on frequent delivery of small 
amount of materials. Usually, there are two separate tugger 
routes — one delivering purchased parts, and the other 
removing finished goods [4]. In spite of its importance, the 
principle of in-plant milk run did not take the appropriate 
attention by researchers [5].  
 
Fig.1. In-plant milk run system 
Forklift is not appropriate for repeatable flow of items 
between the same locations [1]. In this system, large quantities 
of purchased parts arrive at the receiving dock, typically on 
pallets or in boxes, and are delivered directly to the production 
floor in an unorganized manner. So it is difficult in such a 
system to know how many purchased parts are on the floor, 
cells running out of parts, and operators unable to sustain takt 
time because they have to go searching for parts [6]. Using 
frequent delivery cycles results in more space efficient, 
transparent and less variable process. Conventional material 
feeding transporters such as forklifts or automated guided 
vehicles (AGVs) are inappropriate to address the special 
demands of a lean production system [2].  
Pushcarts or trains of tow carts picking up and dropping off 
quantities of materials that are usually less than full pallet 
loads, provide a cheaper, more reliable, and more predictable 
service [1]. Material supply by this system occurs on a just-in-
time basis [7]. Moreover, tuggers or tow-train have been 
proven to reduce material handling distances within facilities 
[8]. Furthermore, tuggers are safer, more maneuverable, and 
less expensive than forklifts [4].  
Because milk run system provides material in small lot 
sizes with high frequency, it is used especially in automotive 
industry in which the number of unique assembled products on 
the production line is constantly increasing. Actually, in the 
automotive industry, a large number of different materials 
should be delivered to production line. The space for material 
provision, which is near the assembly line, is not adequate. 
There are only few bins that can be stored next to the assembly 
line. As a result, the company has to find a rapid, continual and 
 
Supermarket 
Station 1
Station 2
Station n
………
Line-side 
Inventory 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
reliable in-plant supply process to deliver different materials. 
The in-plant milk run system can satisfy the requirement 
above. That is the reason, why in-plant milk run system is 
applied in automotive industry. However, because of its 
complexity in planning and dimensioning, in-plant milk run 
system can hardly be applied in other industries [2].  
In this study, the different decisions problems in in-plant 
milk run systems will be investigated depending on extensive 
literature review. The remainder of this paper is organized as 
follows. Section 2 is about literature review of using in-plant 
milk run and, in particular, the conceptual previous studies 
about decisions in milk run systems. Section 3 will focus on 
summarizing decisions and objectives found in the literature 
regarding milk run systems. Section 4 considers the other 
related decisions affecting or affected by the milk run system. 
Section 5 will shed the light on lean-oriented decisions and 
objective in milk run systems. Section 7 presents directions for 
future research. And finally, section 6 will contain conclusion. 
II. 
LITERATURE REVIEW 
Inbound logistics means transporting parts from suppliers 
to the manufacturing plant, but outbound logistics means 
transporting parts from the manufacturing plant to its 
customers. As stated before, most of the literature about milk 
run systems investigated inbound or outbound logistics. Maybe 
one reason for that is that external milk runs are more 
complicated to set up than in-plant milk runs [1]. Brar and 
Saini [9] reviewed the literature on milk run logistics outside 
the manufacturing plant especially in automotive industry. 
Most of the literature found about the internal milk run systems 
was about feeding assembly lines. For example, Alnahhal and 
Noche [10], Faccio et al. [11], and Faccio et al. [12] studied the 
use of milk run system to feed mixed model assembly lines. 
However, milk run operator can also move the items to the 
regular manufacturing stations and from the assembly lines to 
the testing, repairing, final packaging, and output buffer [1]. 
Using in-plant milk run system was investigated for work 
improvement by several studies such as Sihn and Schmitz [13], 
Wong and Wong [14], and Kasperk et al. [15]. Furthermore, 
milk runs and their tugger trains were recommended by many 
studies to make improvement inside facilities [16, 17, 18, 19].  
In-plant milk run system supports lean manufacturing 
philosophy in which seven wastes are reduced [20, 21]. These 
wastes are  
• 
Waste from producing defects  
• 
Waste in transportation  
• 
Waste from inventory  
• 
Waste from overproduction  
• 
Waste of waiting time  
• 
Waste in processing  
• 
Waste of motion  
The second waste is the focus of our study. If material is 
delivered just in time, another type of waste, namely, inventory 
cost, is decreased. Also, providing materials, after they are 
needed, causes starvation for workstation. This will cost a lot 
because of lost sales and resources underutilization [11]. So in 
JIT, material must be supplied not before and not after it is 
needed. JIT is a major factor in Toyota production system in an 
assembly industry such as automotive manufacturing. Only the 
necessary parts, at the necessary time, in necessary quantity are 
delivered, and in addition, the stock on hand is held down to a 
minimum. JIT is able to shorten the lead time from the entry of 
materials to the completion of job. It also discloses existence of 
surplus equipment and workers [22]. To achieve lean 
manufacturing, some tools that form the “house of lean” are 
used. These tools contain value stream mapping, standardized 
work, 5S, and so on. Later we will explain their relation to milk 
run system. 
A. Advantages and Disadvantages 
The most important decision is to use milk run or not, based 
on its advantages and disadvantages, which depend on the 
particular conditions of each environment. The positive impact 
of using in-plant milk run system was investigated in some 
studies. Hanson and Finnsgard [23] presented a case study in 
which the transition from using mainly the forklifts to milk run 
tugger trains to replace the pallet loading units with plastic 
containers loading units. This was to achieve compact 
assembly stations with parts presentation that could support 
efficient assembly. As a result of the changes, it was possible 
for the company to reduce the work force at the assembly line 
by 13.5 FTE (full-time equivalent) assemblers. Another result 
was reducing the inventory size beside the workstations. 
Moreover, they get rid of the capacity problems, which in turn 
result in unpredictable delivery times and delayed deliveries. 
Furthermore, tuggers were more directly connected to 
consumption than the forklift system. Moreover, Rother [24] 
showed several advantages for using in-plant milk run tow 
trains after using them in an automotive company in Germany 
such as increasing productivity, enormous cost savings, 15 % 
less empty runs, reducing traffic volume, less amount of 
resources, saving a huge amount of space, and enhancing 
safety. 
Moreover, Finnsgard et al. [25] examined in a case study 
how the choice of materials exposure impacts workstation 
performance, in terms of non-value-adding work, space 
requirements and ergonomics. The transition from pallet sized 
unit load transported by forklifts to smaller plastic containers 
sized unit loads transported by tugger train has a great impact 
where the space required for materials was reduced by 67%, 
non-value-adding work was decreased by 20%, and walking 
distance was reduced by 52%. Furthermore, the ergonomics for 
the assembly operator improved greatly, with a 92% reduction 
of potentially harmful picking activities, thereby almost 
eliminating potentially harmful body movements. The positive 
ergonomic effect of using narrow bins compared to using big 
boxes was investigated in a study by Neumann and Medbo [26] 
which also considers the effect on performance times, walking 
distances, and layout space requirements. 
However, the planning process for transition from 
traditional system to milk run must take a lot of deep analysis 
and thinking, because sometimes the costs for this transition 
are very high. For example, Hanson [27] presented a case study 
about “Minomi” which is a unit load where no container is 
used, and identified the effects of using minomi in the materials 
supply within an assembly plant. To facilitate using this 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
concept, milk run tugger train was used instead of the 
traditional forklift system. However, in that case study the parts 
should, also after the introduction of minomi, be placed and 
handled in their original steel containers in order for efficient 
handling and storage to be maintained. With this solution, 
forklifts were still required for lifting the containers from the 
storage area onto the tugger train, meaning that the total 
number of handling operations increased in the materials 
supply operations. The combination of increased handling 
necessary for each delivery and increased delivery frequency 
resulted in a 326 percent increase in the man hour consumption 
for performing the deliveries. Furthermore, in the case study 
illustrated above in the study by Hanson and Finnsgard [23], 
the main disadvantage of the new system was in introducing a 
new activity which is repacking the pallets coming from the 
suppliers to the new plastic container size and also the 
sequenced deliveries which needed additional 13 workers. So 
applying the principle of in-plant milk run is not always 
without side effects. As a matter of fact, beside additional work 
on transferring materials from big containers to smaller bins, 
milk run systems increase the number of bins in the system and 
increase the stress on routing operators [4]. 
B. Designing Milk Run Systems 
The planning of designing milk run systems was 
investigated in literature. Abele and Brungs [28] formulated 
fundamental concepts to optimally design and develop milk 
runs. In a study by Alizon et al. [29], milk run trains and 
forklift system were used in the same time to feed the same 
assembly workshop. Michael and Claudia [30] presented 
several characteristics of milk run and showed that a higher 
delivery frequency has a positive effect on a marked reduction 
of inventory volume at the production stations. Furthermore, 
they presented approaches regarding demand requirements, 
supply, and transport control that must be considered in the 
system so that efficient and ecologically beneficial delivery 
system can be implemented.  
Classification of milk run design decisions was also 
investigated in previous studies, but in a limit range. For 
example, Droste and Deuse [2] defined four design alternatives 
the decision maker should focus on when he wants to use milk 
run system, these alternatives are material control, warehouse, 
means of transport, and Point of Use (PoU). In material 
control, the planner can decide between just in time, just in 
sequence, and also between Kanban and CONWIP systems. In 
the warehouse, there is direct and parallel picking from flow 
rack, pallet rack, shelf, etc. In means of transport, the planner 
can consider the types of conveyor, manually operated cart or 
propelled towing train. In PoU, the planner can consider 
provision directly to stations in flow rack or provision on a spot 
close to station. However, Droste and Deuse [2] did not 
concentrate on other importance decisions such as routing and 
scheduling. 
Moreover and based on the observations in real 
manufacturing environment and limited literature, milk-run 
distribution problem was categorized and explained in a study 
by Kilic et al. [5]. Their classification was related to the routes 
and their time periods. There are three categories of problems: 
general assignment problem, dedicated assignment problem, 
and determined time periods assignment problem. In “general 
assignment problem”, the routes and time periods are not 
known. “Dedicated assignment problem” is the second 
category where the routes are known but the problem is to 
determine the time periods of the vehicles on the related routes. 
The last category is “determined time periods assignment 
problem” in which time periods are known but the routes are 
not known. As obvious in the study by Kilic et al. [5], the 
concentration is on routes and time periods, which means that 
they did not consider the other types of decisions. 
As can be seen from the previous literature, there is a need 
for a comprehensive study that not only takes into 
consideration the decisions problems in in-plant milk run 
system, but also the other related decisions that affect or 
affected by the in-plant milk run system decisions. This is what 
this study tries to do. 
III. 
IN-PLANT MILK RUN DECISIONS AND 
OBJECTIVES 
In-plant milk run as a principle is new. Its complex nature 
from different sides is not well explained in literature. One of 
the objectives of this study is to give the reader the knowledge 
about the environment of milk run application and its decisions 
since it needs a lot of complex planning tasks. The study also 
explains the relations among different decisions, and warns the 
decision makers not to make fast judgment about in-plant milk 
run before taking enough planning into consideration. It also 
gives the researchers hints about future research trends 
regarding in-plant milk run especially the areas that have not 
been covered yet by literature. 
A lean material-handling system should deliver materials to 
the operators' fingertips. This step involves determining 
delivery aisles, selecting a conveyance method, such as 
tuggers, determining the stops and delivery points for the route, 
and creating correctly sized point-of-use gravity racks at 
delivery points [6]. Drivers should fill the racks from the 
outside, so they don’t interrupt the working operators [4]. 
Harris and Harris [6] defined 5 major steps for the 
transition from traditional material flow to the lean material 
flow using the milk run systems: 
1. Develop a plan for every part (PFEP). 
2. Build the purchased-parts market 
3. Design delivery routes 
4. Implement pull signals 
5. Continuously improve the system 
 
During doing these five steps, most of the decisions can be 
made. For more information about applying these steps, the 
reader may refer to Marchwinski [4] who presented a case 
study about that. Enough information should be available for 
every part in the system in the first step. In the second step, the 
major steps in designing the market are figuring the maximum 
inventory level for each part, and establishing rules for 
operating the market. After determining the maximum 
inventory level, the maximum space level for the inventory 
should be determined. In the third step, decisions such as 
choosing the transporter type, routing, scheduling, design of 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 4 ---
racks, and number of containers in the racks can be made. In 
the fourth step, the configuration of the kanban system can be 
determined such as the number of kanbans based on the type of 
routes, coupled or decoupled (will be explained later). 
Different standardized procedures should be followed to 
continuously improve the work. 
Table 1 shows different studies with the decisions 
investigated, objectives, type of transporter (tow train (T) or 
manual cart (C)), and the feeding system used (pull Kanban 
(K) or demand-oriented (D-O)). D-O means working based on 
certain and known stations demand for just short periods. As 
can be seen from the table, there are some studies which used 
demand-oriented system in milk run. These studies investigated 
assembly lines in automotive industry. Difficulties come in the 
case of high variant mixed model assembly when the demand 
of stations changes every day because of the ever changing 
daily production sequences. What makes it even harder is the 
fact that materials must be there when they are needed to avoid 
disruptions in the assembly process. So in this case, demand-
oriented system performs superior to the popular Kanban 
systems [31]. In this demand-oriented system, using small 
frequent deliveries of raw materials facilitates using the JIT 
principle, and “forecasting” the demand of stations is only for 
three or four days. This could be better than waiting to be 
‘‘surprised’’ by low stocks, which may make it very necessary 
to make necessitate emergency deliveries if the next scheduled 
stopover at the station is too far off [32]. As obvious in table 1, 
most of the researches concentrated on the case of using tow 
trains. The only decision about manual carts was just to 
determine to choose them or to choose the tow trains instead. 
The decisions can be summarized as follows: 
• 
Choosing kind of conveyor (KC)  
• 
Choosing demand-oriented or Kanban systems  
• 
The number of kanban required in the system (K) 
• 
Determining number of trains (N) 
• 
Number of handling operators (NO) 
• 
Routing problem (R) 
• 
Scheduling problem (S) 
• 
Determining service period (P) 
• 
Loading problem (L) 
• 
Frequency of routing (F) 
• 
Parts service level (SL) 
Decisions introduced by Droste and Deuse [2] which were 
mentioned in the previous section can be added to the list. In 
table 1, the study by Battini et al. [33] is a conceptual one 
reviewing the previous researches investigating the decision 
problems in the case of using decentralized supermarket 
system. Choosing the means of transport depends mainly on 
the distance traveled beside the layout of the facility. 
Generally, for long distances, tow trains are better. On the other 
hand, sometimes there is no enough space for the tow trains. 
As stated by Baudin [1], “push carts are not adequate to deliver 
thousands of items in box quantities at multiple locations every 
half hour, which is commonly needed in the automobile 
industry”. The number of trains is a decision variable and an 
objective in the same time where the objective of course is to 
reduce it. As stated by Kilic et al. [5], the route for the train can 
be fixed or variable.  
TABLE I. IN-PLANT MILK RUN STUDIES: DECISIONS AND OBJECTIVES. 
Study 
K 
D-
O 
T 
C 
Decisions 
Objectives 
Alnahhal 
and Noche 
[10] 
 
X 
X 
 
R, S, L 
IC, SV, N 
Álvarez  et 
al. [35]  
X 
 
 
X 
KC, F, R 
IC, U 
Battini 
et 
al. [33] 
 
X 
X 
 
R, S, L 
IC 
Ciemnocz-
olowski 
and Bozer 
[36]    
X 
 
X 
 
K 
SP 
Costa et al. 
[37]  
X 
 
X 
 
N 
N 
Domingo et 
al. [34] 
X 
 
 
X 
KC, F, R 
IC, U 
Emde 
and 
Boysen  
[38] 
 
X 
X 
 
R, S 
IC 
Emde et al. 
[39] 
 
X 
X 
 
L 
IC 
Faccio 
et 
al. [11] 
X 
 
X 
 
N, K 
U 
Faccio 
et 
al. [12] 
X 
 
X 
 
K, NO, SL 
IC 
Golz et al. 
[31]  
 
X 
X 
 
R, S 
N 
Kilic et. al. 
[5]  
X 
 
X 
 
R, P 
N, D 
Satoglu and 
Sahin [7].  
X 
 
X 
 
R, P 
MH, IC 
 
In the variable one, the train can have different routes. 
Domingo et al. [34], for example, defined different routings for 
different hours in the day, since it is not necessary to visit each 
job with a high frequency. However and from the lean 
manufacturing point of view, the fixed routing is better since it 
standardizes the work. The periods in scheduling can also be 
fixed or variable.  
Emde and Boysen [38] showed that the variable periods are 
optimal for reducing inventory costs. However and from the 
point of view of lean manufacturing, it is better to standardize 
the system by stabilizing the periods. Some studies even 
considered fixed periods as a must to call the system as milk 
run such as Bozer and Ciemnoczolowski [3]. Moreover, 
Hanson and Finnsgard [23] presented a real case study in 
which the time period of the tugger train was constant. The 
routing and scheduling are related to each other. Some studies 
assumed that routing is input and they investigated the 
scheduling problem. On the other hand, some studies assumed 
that the periods are input, and they investigated the routing 
problem. However, other studies such as Emde and Boysen 
[38] studied the routing and scheduling together. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 5 ---
In the case that for some periods of time the demand is 
more than the capacity of the trains, loading problem, in which 
some parts are loaded in previous non bottleneck periods, will 
be necessary. Therefore, the decision here is about determining 
for each route which parts and by which quantity should be 
loaded on the train to minimize the total inventory. This was in 
the demand-oriented system formulated by Emde et al. [39]. 
However in the pull system, there is another decision problem 
regarding kanbans which control the precise times and 
quantities of parts delivered to stations. It is important to 
precisely control the number of kanban circulating in the 
system. The first step is to determine how frequently to deliver 
material to stations, and whether the route is "coupled" or 
"decoupled." In a coupled route, the tugger driver loads carts in 
the market and drives them to the stations, and delivers them to 
the point of use. In a decoupled route, the work is divided 
between a market attendant who loads parts, and the driver 
who delivers them. Decoupled routes require two sets of carts 
but they improve labor utilization, so routes can be longer and 
have more carts [6]. In decentralized supermarket system, the 
decoupled routes seem not very effective because in this case a 
market attendant should be there for every supermarket which 
increases the labor costs. Ciemnoczolowski and Bozer [36] 
determined the number of kanbans and considered the effects 
of the number of kanban, the physical capacity of the tugger, 
and the cycle time on workstation starvation defined as the 
fraction of available time a workstation is idle due to lack of 
parts.  
The objectives contain minimizing inventory costs (IC), 
system variability (SV), number of trains (N), starvation 
probability (SP), distance traversed (D) and total material 
handling costs (MH); and increasing utilization of workers (U). 
Beside the decisions and objective, a very important aspect 
about in-plant milk run system is its constraints. There are 
restrictive dimensions of in-plant milk run systems which are 
time, capacity and ergonomics and have to be considered 
properly in order to achieve an efficient in-plant milk run 
system 
[2]. 
Obviously, 
the 
necessary 
handling 
and 
transportation time of a milk run has to be less than or equal to 
the milk run cycle time in order to maintain the planned 
material provision takt. The capacity of the tow train must be 
considered. The physical strain on the material handlers must 
also be considered. Beside these restrictions, different 
restrictions were found in the literature such as starvation 
introduced 
by 
Bozer 
and 
Ciemnoczolowski 
[3] 
and 
Ciemnoczolowski and Bozer [36] where they took into 
consideration determining the level of workstations starvation 
for given system parameters. Other studies such as Emde and 
Boysen [38] assumed in their model that the number of part 
shortages must be zero.  
IV. 
OTHER RELATED DECISIONS 
In-plant milk run system does not stand alone. There are 
many decisions that are related to this system. Some of them 
can be considered as inputs to the milk run system and others 
can be considered as outputs. The in-plant milk run was 
considered in a study by Kovács [40] as input for the storage 
assignment problem which involves the placement of a set of 
items in a warehouse in such a way that some performance 
measures are optimal. In that case, the most important input 
from the milk run is routing. In another study by Alizon et al. 
[29], in which the assembly work shop was fed by tow trains 
and forklifts in the same time, the assignment problem was 
performed. However, the major concern of that study was the 
delivery of components performed by forklifts, so it was 
assumed that the routes followed by trains are fixed. The 
problem is then to optimize forklift delivery loops by including 
congestion caused by loading/unloading in a potential blocking 
aisle. 
On the other hand, according to Ramesh [41], a good layout 
can lead to an effective implementation of milk run concept for 
the smooth flow of in-process material. Another important 
input 
decision 
that 
can 
be 
investigated 
is 
storage 
centralization/decentralization decision. For example, Battini et 
al. [42] considered investigating this decision where they 
studied the usage of supermarkets which are “decentralized 
storage areas scattered throughout the shop floor which serve 
as an intermediate store for parts required by nearby line 
segments”. Some of the advantages of decentralized 
supermarket system are “shorter delivery times by being closer 
to the consumer (i.e., the assembly line), freight consolidation 
by being supplied by industrial trucks, and faster turnover by 
stocking and delivering parts just as needed”. “On the 
downside, supermarkets consume space on the factory floor, 
which is scant and expensive” [32]. Furthermore, a cost model 
was presented in a study by Sargent et al. [43] where the model 
can be used to determine if further consideration should be 
given to decentralized storage in a facility currently utilizing 
centralized storage. The cost model consists of examining the 
trade-off between the savings in material handling flow costs 
due to moving from centralized to decentralized storage and 
the additional costs associated with implementing and utilizing 
decentralized storage for a designated period of time. Satogluet 
al. [44] evaluated the conversion from central storage to 
decentralized storages in cellular manufacturing environments 
using activity-based costing. Furthermore, Alizon et al. [29] 
studied the flow of materials from several internal warehouses 
to supply the same assembly workshop. Moreover, in a study 
by Hanson and Finnsgard [23], a case study was explained in 
which the material feeding was organized by using three drop 
zones which were close to three assembly lines. These drop 
zones get the material from the AS/RS system. Then material 
was transported from the drop zones to the different stations in 
the assembly lines. One the other hand, in a study by 
Marchwinski [4], a case study was presented about a company 
which had 4 storage areas feeding the assembly lines using the 
traditional forklift system. Then when the company wanted to 
use milk run tugger train, it used one central supermarket and 
considered that as an advantage to reduce the inventory costs. 
Besides, its location near the receiving dock permits quick 
delivery from receiving to storage racks. 
So if the decentralization decision has been made, another 
decision also must be made which is the location of the 
decentralized supermarkets which was investigated by Emde 
and Boysen [32]. This means that at first, a decision has to be 
made about using centralized or decentralized supermarkets. If 
the decision is to use the decentralized supermarket, the 
location problem is a must. After that, other milk run decisions 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 6 ---
can be studied. For example, Emde and Boysen [38] studied 
the scheduling and routing problem of the tow trains, and 
Emde et al. [39] studied the loading problem. However, if the 
decision is to use the centralized system, there is no need for 
the supermarket location problem such as the way in the study 
by Golz et al. [31]. The general framework of these decisions 
can be shown in Fig. 2. 
It is good to mention here the definition of “supermarket”. 
There is no universal meaning for it. Some studies considered 
supermarket as a central storage area such as Golz et al. [31], 
Bozer and Ciemnoczolowski [3], and Ciemnoczolowski and 
Bozer [36]. Other studies considered it as decentralized storage 
area such as Battini et al. [42], Emde et al. [39], Emde and 
Boysen [38], and Emde and Boysen [32]. Other studies define 
the supermarket as central picking store in which the kitting 
process is performed [4]. All these types are also different from 
the famous “Kanban Supermarket” used in lean Manufacturing 
[44, 45]. On the other hand, Marchwinski [4] and Harris and 
Harris [6] named the central warehouse holding the purchased 
parts as “market”. There are also other decisions that interact 
with the decisions in the milk run systems such as line stocking 
and kitting which are two alternative material supply systems 
that are common in assembly systems. Line-stocking systems 
supply components to the assembly line in homogeneous 
individual component containers stored close to the assembly 
workstations at the border of the line. On the other hand, kitting 
systems combine various components into one heterogeneous 
package according to a future assembly schedule. The required 
quantity of components is stored in kit containers at the border 
of the line [45].  
 
Fig. 2. General Framework of the milk run system found in the literature in 
the case of demand-oriented system. 
The kit assembly operation can be performed in a central 
picking store or in decentralized areas close to the assembly 
stations. In the case of using central picking store, the parts are 
transported to this store from the central warehouse using the 
tow train or the forklifts. So besides its working in the milk run 
tours, the tow train can also be used for handling material from 
the central warehouse to the central picking store of kitting. In 
this case, the milk run route feeding different stations does not 
start from the central warehouse but from central picking store. 
Fig. 3 summarizes the input and output decisions related to 
milk run system found in the literature. 
V. LEAN ASPECTS IN MILK RUN SYSTEM 
The advantages previously mentioned such as reducing 
inventory costs, workforce requirements, the space required for 
materials, non-value-adding work, and walking distance 
coincide with the principle of lean which is about minimizing 
wastes. Moreover, introducing milk run help in organizing the 
shop floor, and this coincides with the 5S principle. The basic 
principle of in-plant milk run is providing small and repetitive 
amounts of materials for the workstations. This is done 
according to the JIT principle to minimize inventory costs 
which coincides with the lean manufacturing philosophy. In 
most of the cases, the pull system using kanbans was used in 
the milk run systems. However, in some cases as stated before, 
the demand-oriented system was also used to predict the 
demand only for few days which does not contradict severely 
with the JIT principle. Another tool of lean manufacturing is 
value stream mapping [44]. External milk runs were 
extensively used in the literature in value stream mapping. 
However, only few studies considered using in-plant milk runs 
in this tool such as the study by Álvarez et al. [35] which used 
in-plant milk run inside the value stream mapping for 
redesigning an assembly line. According to the same study, 
using kanban alone without internal milk run is not enough for 
reducing the total inventory. One of the most important tools of 
lean manufacturing is standardized work. The effect of this tool 
is very obvious in stabilizing the routes periods and the routes 
themselves. The periods of trains’ routes should be the same 
even if this is not optimal, because changing the periods for 
every route is very confusing for material handlers. The same is 
also for standardizing the trains’ routes. This standardization in 
routing and scheduling was emphasized by several studies such 
as Abele and Brungs [28]. 
 
Fig. 3. Input and output decisions, found in the literature, related to milk run 
Train Routing 
Problem- 
Short-term Planning 
Train Scheduling 
Problem- 
Short-term Planning 
Loading Problem- 
Short term Planning
Direction of
Information
Yes  
Supermarket Location 
Problem- 
Mid-term Planning 
Inventory 
Centralization/decentralization decision 
Long-term Planning 
Decentralize
? 
No 
 
 
Milk run decisions
 
 
 
Storage 
assignment 
problem 
 
 
 
In-plant 
milk run 
decisions 
Inventory 
centralization/ 
decentralization?
Location problem 
Facility layout 
Kitting or line stocking?
Input decisions 
Yes 
Output 
decisions 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 7 ---
Some studies such as Emde et al. [39], Emde and Boysen 
[38], Emde and Boysen [32] assumed using “shooter racks” in 
tow train systems. These special gravity flow racks are used to 
automatically load bins on the wagons using elastic springs. 
These racks reduce the length of a stopover to a few seconds. 
However, not all the automotive companies use this system. 
From the point of view of lean manufacturing which makes 
more 
emphasis 
on 
managerial 
(not 
technological) 
enhancements, consideration should be more for manual 
loading and unloading. 
VI. 
DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH 
By looking at the objectives found in the literate in table 1, 
we realize that these objectives mainly concentrate on reducing 
the costs of the system. However, there is lack of studies 
regarding fast response of the system to any changes in 
material demand. Failure of the system to this fast response 
means increasing starvation of workstations. One direction is to 
investigate the impact of changing the type of route from 
coupled to decoupled one on the response speed of the system. 
Another factor is the impact of using the centralized or 
decentralized 
supermarket 
system. 
 
Previous 
studies 
concentrated on analyzing the decision mainly based on the 
system costs. Future research, however, can investigate the 
optimal degree of centralization/ decentralizing of inventory 
based on the speed of the system. Having decentralized 
supermarkets will make the inventory not far away from the 
workstations, and this means that if a shortage in material takes 
place, the replenishment of material will not take too much 
time. Another factor that enhances the response speed of the 
system is using technologies such as radio frequency 
identification (RFID) which can be used to send the signals for 
material replenishment. Its effects have a good research 
opportunity in the future. Using RFID and decoupled routes 
together gives the opportunity to decrease the service period 
and decrease the lead time. Besides that, determining the size 
of resources such as number of tow trains should be 
reinvestigated based on the new objective. Decisions such as 
route length, frequency of routing, number of containers per 
route, and container size can also be investigated to enhance 
the response speed of the system. Keeping spare trains’ 
capacity contributes very well in this direction. Beside these 
operational decisions, fast response-delivery can be considered 
in higher levels such as supplier selection. One criterion may 
focus on the agreement with suppliers to supply materials in 
final small container size to eliminate repackaging time. 
Future studies can also focus on combining the decisions of 
the physical characteristics of the tow trains and the managerial 
aspects of using it. For example, usually there are several types 
of tow trains available with different widths, and using the 
appropriate type depends on the aisles width which must be 
larger than the train width plus a sufficient clearance. 
Therefore, choosing the appropriate type of tow trains depends 
on the layout of the factory. It may be wise to consider the two 
decisions together in the same time. Another aspect is the 
turning radius of the train which also depends on the layout. 
This radius also depends on the tow train length which depends 
on the number of trailers attached to the tow train. Using long 
tow trains saves material handling costs; however, if the 
number of the trailers is too large, it will affect the safety, and 
sometimes could not be attainable because of the layout of the 
factory. Attention should also be made for the even distribution 
of the weight over the trailers of the train. Another dimension 
that can be considered in the future research is the congestion 
of the tow trains inside the facility during the loading and 
unloading of these trains in narrow aisles. This problem can be 
minimized by reducing the number of loading/unloading stops 
of the tow train without increasing starvation probability or 
inventory costs. 
VII. CONCLUSION  
This conceptual study focused on investigating the general 
framework of decisions usually made regarding in-plant milk 
run systems using extensive literature review. The usual 
addressed objectives were illustrated. The other external 
decisions which can be considered as inputs for or outputs from 
the milk run decisions were investigated. The decision maker 
should take into consideration the different aspects of lean 
manufacturing in the design of the milk run. Future studies can 
concentrate on investigating these decisions especially those 
which have not covered sufficiently in literature to enhance the 
speed of the response of the system to any changes in parts 
demand or capacity shortages.  
REFERENCES 
[1] M. Baudin, Lean Logistics: The Nuts and Bolts of Delivering Materials 
and Goods. New York: Productivity Press, 2004. 
[2] M. Droste and J. Deuse, “A Planning Approach for In-plant Milk Run 
Processes to Optimize Material Provision in Assembly Systems,” 
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Changeable, Agile, 
Reconfigurable and Virtual Production (CARV2011), Montreal, Canada, 
October 2-5, 2011 
[3] Y. Bozer and D. Ciemnoczolowski, “Performance evaluation of small-
batch container delivery systems used in lean manufacturing – Part 1: 
system stability and distribution of container starts,” INT J PROD RES, 
vol. 51, pp. 555- 567, Jan. 2013.  
[4] C. Marchwinski, “Following four steps to a lean material-handling 
system leads to a leap in performance,” Knowledge Center at 
http://www.lean.org 
[5] H.S. Kilic, M.B. Durmusoglum, and M. Baskak, “Classification and 
modeling for in-plant milk-run distribution systems,” INT J ADV 
MANUF TECH, vol. 62, pp. 1135-1146, 2012. 
[6] C. Harris and R. Harris, “Steps to Implementing a Lean Material 
Handling System,” March 2004, http://www.lean.org 
[7] S.I. Satoglu and I.E. Sahin, “Design of a just-in-time periodic material 
supply system for the assembly lines and an application in electronics 
industry, INT J ADV MANUF TECH, vol. 65, pp. 319-332, 2013. 
[8] R. Owens, “Advancing facility planning,” IND ENG, vol. 43, pp. 45-49, 
Nov. 2011. 
[9] G.S. Brar and G. Saini, “Milk Run Logistics: literature review and 
directions,” Proceedings of the World Congress on Engineering, vol. I. 
London, U.K, July 6-8, 2011. 
[10] M. Alnahhal and B. Noche, “Efficient material flow in mixed model 
assembly lines,” SpringerPlus, vol.  2, pp. 1-12, Aug 2013. 
[11] M. Faccio, M. Gamberi, and A. Persona, “Kanban number optimization 
in a supermarket warehouse feeding a mixed-model assembly system,” 
INT J PROD RES, vol. 51, pp. 2997-3017, Feb 2013. 
[12] M. Faccio, M. Gamberi, A. Persona, A. Regattieri, and F. Sgarbossa, 
“Design and simulation of assembly line feeding systems in the 
automotive sector using supermarket, kanbans and tow trains: a general 
framework,” J Manag Control, vol. 24, pp. 187–208, May 2013b. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- SAYFA 8 ---
[13] W. Sihn and K. Schmitz, “Extended Multi-Customer Supplier Parks in 
the Automotive Industry,” CIRP ANN-MANUF TECHN, vol. 56, pp. 
479– 482, Jun. 2007. 
[14] Y. Wong and K. Wong, “Approaches and Practices of Lean 
Manufacturing: The Case of Electrical and Electronics Companies,” 
AFR J BUS MANAG 5, pp.  2164- 2174, 2011  
[15] G. Kasperk, J. Mangoldt, and R. Drauz, “Mixing Push & Pull to survive 
in China: Value Stream Design in an automotive case,” Zukünftige 
Entwicklungen in der Mobilität, Gabler Verlag pp. 301-313, 2012. 
[16] R. Owens, “Practical Facility Layout Technology for Industrial 
Engineers and Educators in Asia,” Proceedings of the11th Asia Pacific 
Industrial Engineering and Management Systems Conference, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia, December 7-10, 2010. 
[17] N.H.A. Halim, A. Jaffar, N. Yusoff, and A.N. Adnan “Gravity Flow 
Rack’s Material Handling System for Just-In-Time (JIT) Production,” 
Procedia Engineering, vol. 41, pp. 1714 – 1720, 2012. 
[18] R. Hanson and M.I. Johansson, “On the choice of approach for materials 
supply to mass customized line assembly,” Proceedings of the PLANs 
conference, Jönköping, Sweden, pp. 97-110, September 5-6, 2007. 
[19] E.J. Williams, O.M. Ulgen, S. Bailiff, and R. Lote, “Material handling 
resource utilization simulation study for stamping plant,” Proceedings of 
the 38th conference on Winter simulation, California, USA, pp. 1940-
1945, December 03- 06, 2006. 
[20] M. Rother, J. Shook, J. Womack, and D. Jones, Learning to See Version 
1.3.  MA, Boston: Lean Enterprises Institution Inc 1999.  
[21] J.P. Womack and D.T. Jones, Lean Thinking: Banish Waste and Create 
Wealth in Your Corporation. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2003. 
[22] Y. Sugimori, K. Kusunoki, F. Cho, and S. Uchikawa, “Toyota 
production system and kanban system materialization of just-in-time and 
respect-for-human system,” INT J PROD RES, vol. 15, pp. 553-564, 
1977. 
[23] R. Hanson and C. Finnsgård, “Impact of unit load size on in-plant 
materials supply efficiency,” INT J PROD ECON, vol. 147, pp. 46-52, 
2014. 
[24] T. Rother, “Less empty runs with milk run and tugger train systems [Per 
Milkrun und Routenzugsystem  Leerfahrten deutlich verringern] ,” 
Maschinen Markt 51/52, 2011. 
[25] C. Finnsgård, C. Wänström, L. Medbo, and W.P. Neumann, “Impact of 
materials exposure on assembly workstation performance,” INT J PROD 
RES, vol. 49, pp. 7253-7274, Jan. 2011.  
[26] W.P. Neumann and L. Medbo, “Ergonomic and technical aspects in the 
redesign of material supply systems: Big boxes vs. narrow bins” INT J 
PROD ECON 40, pp. 541-548, Aug. 2010. 
[27] R. Hanson, “Effects of using minomi in in-plant materials supply,” 
Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management, vol. 22, pp. 90 – 
106, 2011  
[28] E. Abele and F. Brungs, “Optimization of in-plant material provision via 
milk run [Optimierung der innerbetrieblichen Materialversorgung 
mittels Milkrun], ”  Industrie Management, vol. 25, pp. 61-64, Sep 2009. 
[29] F. Alizon, Y. Dallery, I. Essafi, and D. Feillet, “Optimizing material 
handling costs in an assembly workshop,” INT J PROD RES, vol. 47, 
pp. 3853-3866, May 2009. 
[30] M. Michael and N. Claudia, “A Report on the Current Event on the 
WMS Market,” WMS Market Overview. http://www.wmsfinder.com 
[31] J. Golz, R. Gujjula, H.-O. Günther, S. Rinderer, and M. Ziegler, “Part 
feeding at high-variant mixed-model assembly lines,” Flex Serv Manuf 
J, vol. 24, pp. 119–141, Jun. 2012. 
[32] S. Emde and N. Boysen, “Optimally locating in-house logistics areas to 
facilitate JIT-supply of mixed-model assembly lines,” INT J PROD 
ECON, vol. 135, pp. 393-402, Jul. 2012c. 
[33] D. Battini, N. Boysen, and S. Emde, “Just-in-Time supermarkets for part 
supply in the automobile industry,” J Manag Control, vol. 24, pp. 209-
217, Jul. 2013. 
[34] R. Domingo, R. Alvarez, M.M. Peña, and R. Calvo, “Materials flow 
improvement in a lean assembly line: a case study,” ASSEMBLY 
AUTOM, vol. 27, pp. 141-147, 2007. 
[35] R. Álvarez, R. Calvo, M.M. Peña, and R. Domingo, “Redesigning an 
assembly line through lean manufacturing tools,” INT J ADV MANUF 
TECH, vol. 43, pp. 949-958, Aug. 2009.  
[36] D. Ciemnoczolowski and Y. Bozer, “Performance evaluation of small-
batch container delivery systems used in lean manufacturing – Part 2: 
number of Kanban and workstation starvation,” INT J PROD RES, vol. 
51, pp. 568-581, Jan 2013.  
[37] B. Costa, L.S. Dias, J.A. Oliveira, and G. Pereira, “Simulation as a tool 
for planning a material delivery system to manufacturing lines,” 
Proceedings 
of 
Engineering 
Management 
Conference 
IEEE 
International, Estoril, Portugal, June 28-30, 2008. 
[38] S. Emde and N. Boysen, “Optimally routing and scheduling tow trains 
for JIT supply of mixed-model assembly lines,” EUR J OPER RES, vol. 
217, pp. 287-299, 2012b. 
[39] S. Emde, M. Fliedner, and N. Boysen, “Optimally loading tow trains for 
JIT-supply of mixed-model assembly lines,” IIE TRANS, vol. 44, pp. 
121-135, Feb. 2012a. 
[40] A. Kovács, “Optimizing the storage assignment in a warehouse served 
by milkrun logistics” INT J PROD ECON, vol. 133, pp. 312– 318, 2011. 
[41] V. Ramesh, K.V. Sreenivasa Prasad, and T.R. Srinivas, “Study on 
implementation of one-piece lean line design using simulation 
techniques: A practical approach,” J IND ENGINEERING, vol. 5, pp. 
20-36, Jan. 2009. 
[42] D. Battini, M. Faccio, A. Persona, and F. Sgarbossa, “Supermarket 
warehouses: stocking policies optimization in an assembly-to-order 
environment,” INT J ADV MANUF TECH, vol. 50, pp. 775-788, Sep. 
2010. 
[43] T.A. Sargent, G. Michael, and M.G. Kay, “Implementation and 
utilization of a decentralized storage system: costing model,” INT J 
OPER PROD MAN, vol. 15, pp. 210 – 219, 1995. 
[44] S.I. Satoglu, B. Durmusoglu, and I. Dogan “Evaluation of the 
conversion from central storage to decentralized storages in cellular 
manufacturing environments using activity-based costing,” INT J PROD 
ECON, vol. 103, pp. 616–632, Oct. 2006. 
[45] V. Limère, H. Van Landeghem, M. Goetschalckx, E.-H. Aghezzaf, and 
L.F. McGinnis, “Optimizing part feeding in the automotive assembly 
industry: deciding between kitting and line stocking,” INT J PROD 
RES, vol. 50, pp. 4046-4060, Mar. 2012b. 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: ULAKBIM UASL - Sakarya Universitesi. Downloaded on July 27,2026 at 23:16:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
