

--- SAYFA 1 ---
Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering
ISSN: 2168-1015 (Print) 2168-1023 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/tjci21
Particle swarm optimization algorithm for
design of an adaptive Kanban system based on
optimization via simulation
Khouloud Elloumi, Achraf Ammar & Mounir Benaissa
To cite this article: Khouloud Elloumi, Achraf Ammar & Mounir Benaissa (2025) Particle swarm
optimization algorithm for design of an adaptive Kanban system based on optimization
via simulation, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 42:6, 612-624, DOI:
10.1080/21681015.2025.2474082
To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2025.2474082
Published online: 07 Mar 2025.
Submit your article to this journal 
Article views: 149
View related articles 
View Crossmark data
Citing articles: 2 View citing articles 
Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at
https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=tjci21


--- SAYFA 2 ---
Particle swarm optimization algorithm for design of an adaptive Kanban 
system based on optimization via simulation
Khouloud Elloumi
a, Achraf Ammar
b and Mounir Benaissa
a
aLR-OASIS, National Engineers School of Tunis, University of Tunis Elmanar, Tunis, Tunisia; bIndustrial Engineering Department, 
International Institute of Technology, Sfax, Tunisia
ABSTRACT
Manufacturing systems face challenges in adapting to fluctuating demand, making traditional 
fixed-parameter Kanban systems inefficient. This study addresses these limitations by proposing an 
adaptive Kanban-based pull control mechanism that dynamically adjusts the number of Kanbans 
based on inventory levels and backorders. To design an adaptive Kanban system, a metaheuristic 
optimization approach using particle swarm optimization is integrated with simulation to account 
for stochastic and time-varying customer demand. Previous studies have either overlooked 
demand fluctuations in Kanban systems or underutilized the advantages of particle swarm opti­
mization. The results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm significantly reduces total produc­
tion costs compared to existing metaheuristic methods. These findings underscore the importance 
of integrating simulation and optimization to enhance decision-making in manufacturing, provid­
ing a robust framework for improving production flow control in uncertain environments.
ARTICLE HISTORY 
Received 10 December 2023  
Revised 23 February 2025  
Accepted 23 February 2025 
KEYWORDS 
Manufacturing system; 
adaptive Kanban system; 
PSO algorithm; 
metaheuristic; optimization; 
discrete event simulation
1. Introduction
In the context of the 4th industrial revolution, several 
countries have allocated significant investments to 
address major technical and scientific challenges with 
the goal of improving the performance of their compa­
nies [1]. Despite the opportunities presented by this 
revolution, companies must confront significant difficul­
ties caused by market evolution, production uncertain­
ties, and unpredictable demand fluctuation. To remain 
efficient and competitive, production systems must be 
capable of adapting to face these uncertainties.
This adaptability can be achieved through the imple­
mentation of adaptive systems that leverage optimiza­
tion techniques via simulation. The use of simulation to 
optimize dynamic models offers several significant 
advantages, particularly in the management of complex 
or dynamic systems. Simulation allows a detailed exam­
ination of system behavior under different scenarios, 
incorporating uncertainties and dynamics that may be 
neglected by traditional models [2,3]. By combining opti­
mization techniques with simulation, decision-makers 
can identify optimal or near-optimal solutions while 
assessing their feasibility and robustness through simula­
tion experiments. This feedback loop enhances the deci­
sion-making process by allowing adjustments to be 
made based on performance metrics derived from simu­
lation results. Furthermore, optimization coupled to 
simulation can effectively achieve conflicting objectives, 
such as cost reduction and customer satisfaction [4]. 
Overall, simulation is an efficient and powerful tool for 
improving responsiveness and performance in dynamic 
environments [5–8].
The Kanban system is widely recognized as an effec­
tive tool for managing production processes, particu­
larly within the framework of Just-In-Time (JIT) 
manufacturing [9]. By facilitating a pull-based control 
mechanism centered on producing products precisely 
when customers need them, primarily by eliminating 
sources of waste [10], Kanban helps organizations 
minimize Work in Progress (WIP) and streamline opera­
tions to meet customer demands efficiently [11]. 
However, while Kanban has proven beneficial in stable 
environments with predictable demand [12], it pre­
sents limitations in addressing the complexities of 
dynamic environments conditions. As customer prefer­
ences changes and demand becomes increasingly sto­
chastic, traditional Kanban systems can lead to 
inefficiencies such as suboptimal inventory levels and 
resource underutilization. To overcome these limita­
tions, previous studies aim to solve the rigidity of 
traditional approaches, providing a more responsive 
and cost-effective solution.
Despite numerous studies in production system opti­
mization, the practical implementation of approaches 
that effectively address dynamic and stochastic environ­
ments is still a challenge for manufacturing management. 
Many existing studies have highlighted the limitations of 
traditional systems in dealing with such conditions, parti­
cularly when attempting to balance conflicting objectives 
such as minimizing costs while maximizing customer 
CONTACT Khouloud Elloumi 
khouloud.elloumi@isgis.usf.tn LR-OASIS, National Engineers School of Tunis, University of Tunis Elmanar, Tunis 1002, 
Tunisia
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING 
2025, VOL. 42, NO. 6, 612–624 
https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2025.2474082
© 2025 Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
satisfaction. Identifying optimal parameters in adaptive 
production systems is a complex challenge, especially 
under fluctuating and uncertain demand conditions. 
Although optimization via simulation has proven to be 
a powerful technique for addressing these challenges by 
coupling system dynamics with advanced optimization 
methods, it has yet to see widespread adoption in 
practice.
This study aims to fill this gap by leveraging the 
Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm to opti­
mize an adaptive Kanban system. PSO, inspired by the 
collective behavior of swarms, is an efficient and robust 
method for solving complex, non-linear problems. 
Each particle in the algorithm represents a potential 
solution, and through iterative interactions, the swarm 
collectively searches for the best solution based on 
a fitness function [13]. In the context of adaptive 
Kanban systems, PSO shows great potential for opti­
mizing decision parameters, enabling systems to dyna­
mically adjust and improve performance under varying 
demand conditions.
To achieve these objectives, this study employs 
optimization via simulation, a method particularly sui­
ted to capturing the complexities of stochastic and 
time-varying demand. Simulation provides a detailed 
representation of system behavior under different sce­
narios, incorporating uncertainties and evaluating the 
robustness and feasibility of solutions. By integrating 
PSO with simulation, this research not only demon­
strates the effectiveness of this approach but also 
offers a practical framework for enhancing the adapt­
ability and performance of production systems. In 
order to evaluate the performance of the proposed 
approach, a comparative study based on the objective 
function was conducted. The PSO algorithm was com­
pared to other algorithms predeveloped in the existing 
literature.
The structure of the study is as follows. Section 2 
provides an analysis of the current literature on adap­
tive card-based pull control systems, with a focus on 
approaches for dynamically adjusting the number of 
cards in the absence of production forecasts. In 
Section 3, we outline our methodology, which com­
bines an optimization via simulation approach with 
a metaheuristic approach. The Particle Swarm 
Optimization algorithm is elaborated. In Section 4, we 
apply our approach to examples of adaptive Kanban 
systems drawn from the literature in order to test the 
performance of the proposed approach. The simula­
tion results are analyzed and discussed in section 5. 
A comparison of the proposed approach with other 
methods developed in the literature demonstrates the 
superiority of our approach. Finally, the study con­
cludes with a summary of the results and a discussion 
of potential new future works.
2. Literature review
2.1. Problem statement and related research
The traditional Kanban system (TKS) is a pull-based 
manufacturing system that uses a set of cards to signal 
the need for more materials when a production stage 
is complete. It effectively control the flow of materials 
in a production process, allowing for the efficient use 
of resources and reducing waste. However, the tradi­
tional Kanban system with fixed number of card has 
limitations when it comes to dealing with uncertain 
and fluctuation demand. To address these challenges, 
several studies have proposed card controlling 
approaches. In these methods, the number of Kanban 
cards in circulation is adjusted to accommodate the 
dynamic and unpredictable changes in the production 
environment. Such systems are often categorized as 
flexible pull control systems [14,15], reactive systems 
[16], or adaptive systems [17–20] offering different 
strategies to improve responsiveness and adaptability 
in managing production flows under varying 
conditions.
Adaptive card production control policies have 
been widely discussed in the literature to dynamically 
adjust the number of cards in response to environ­
mental changes. The literature provides various 
approaches and information on the implementation 
and effectiveness of these adaptive systems.
Tardif and Maaseidvaag [17] designed the Adaptive 
Kanban System (AKS) to manage variable supply and 
demand conditions. The proposed approach aims to 
responds to changes in demand by dynamically adjust­
ing the number of Kanban based on inventory and 
backorder levels. Figure 1 shows the AKS model. The 
number of cards used is allowed to vary based on the 
current stock level and pending orders. When 
a demand arrives at time t to the manufacturing sys­
tem, the inventory level N(t) is calculated. N(t) repre­
sent the quantity of finished pieces in excess of 
pending orders at time t expressed by (P(t) – D(t)).
●If the inventory level N(t) is below the release 
threshold (R), N(t) ≤ R and an extra card is avail­
able x(t) > 0, then an extra card is released and 
sent to MP. The demand is satisfied as soon as 
a finished product is available
●If the inventory level N(t) exceeds the capture 
threshold (C), N(t) ≥ C and an extra card is avail­
able x(t) < E, then the demand is satisfied as soon 
as a finished product is available, the card 
attached to the product is captured and queue 
E is updated.
The queue P contains finished pieces, and queue 
D contains pending orders. The single-stage adaptive 
mechanism uses K initial cards and E additional cards. 
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
613


--- SAYFA 4 ---
Initially, before a customer demand arrives in the sys­
tem, queue P has a base stock of K finished pieces, 
queue E contains all additional cards, queue D is 
empty, and the manufacturing process MP is inactive. 
Here, note that C > R and C < K + 1 are necessary 
consideration for this system to function properly [17]
Design of AKS requires determination of value for 
number of cards (K), number of extra cards (E), release 
threshold (R) and capture threshold (C). Several alter­
native methods are available that employ simple deci­
sion rules with thresholds. One such approach, 
introduced by Tardif and Maaseidvaag [17], focuses 
on the current inventory and backordered level. To 
maintain control, an additional card is introduced 
into the system when demand arises and the inventory 
level falls below a predetermined release threshold. 
Conversely, a card is removed from the system when 
demand occurs and the inventory level exceeds 
a capture threshold. Tardif and Maaseidvaag devised 
a local search technique to determine these thresh­
olds, as well as two other parameters crucial for 
ConWIP system design. However, it is important to 
note that their method may encounter the challenge 
of 
becoming 
trapped 
in 
a 
local 
minimum. 
Shahabudeen and Sivakumar [18] utilized a heuristic- 
based genetic algorithm to determine the aforemen­
tioned parameters, demonstrating the high efficiency 
of the Genetic Algorithm (GA) through their numerical 
results. Building upon their work, Sivakumar and 
Shahabudeen [19] extended their approach to address 
multi-stage adaptive Kanban systems and found that 
the Simulated Annealing algorithm (SA) also proved 
effective in optimizing such systems. In a subsequent 
study, Sivakumar and Shahabudeen [21] employed 
a search combining genetic and simulated annealing 
algorithms to establish threshold values for adaptive 
Kanban systems, aiming to achieve the same objective. 
In works presented by Sivakumar and Shahabudeen, 
the system is modeled in terms of the state (i, x) whose 
evaluation describes a continuous time Markov chain 
(CTMC). State (N(t), x(t)) denotes the total number of 
parts in queue P minus the total number of back orders 
in queue D by N and the number of extra cards in 
circulation by x.
Expanding on this objective, Pierreval et al. [6] pro­
posed a simulation-based optimization approach spe­
cifically designed for reactive ConWIP systems. In 
a follow-up study, Belisario and Pierreval [22] 
employed a simulation-based genetic programming 
approach to modify the number of cards, thereby 
reducing WIP while meeting customer demands. 
Manupati et al. [23] proposed a Support Vector 
Machine based on simulation approach to tackle 
a production control problem in a flexible manufactur­
ing cell operating in a dynamic environment, with the 
aim of maximizing total weighted throughput and 
minimizing weighted tardiness. Renna [24], propose 
an adaptive card-based pull control approaches using 
demand 
forecasts. 
The 
author 
introduced 
a methodology involving the development of a fuzzy 
controller to adjust the number of cards, which has 
been validated using a simulation module.
In a subsequent work, Elloumi et al. [25,26] propose 
an intelligent policy based on fuzzy logic for dynami­
cally adjusting the number of Kanban cards in a pull 
production system operating in a stochastic environ­
ment with fluctuations in customer demand. The 
objective is to maintain a high level of performance 
measures in terms of production costs and customer 
satisfaction without any estimation of future demands.
Xanthopoulos et al. [27] proposed a study regarding 
card-based adaptive control policies that dynamically 
adjust the number of cards in response to environ­
mental changes, with the aim of reducing backorders 
and increasing throughput. The authors point out that 
previous literature has neglected Generalized Kanban 
and Extended Kanban as adaptive systems, and that no 
comprehensive experimental study has compared 
multiple adaptive control policies in a multi-objective 
context.
Azouz et al [8] presented an analytical study on the 
concept of nervousness in the context of adaptive 
control systems by proposing an approach based on 
multi-objective optimization to reduce the number of 
Kanban card changes. Then, Azouz and Pierreval [28] 
exploited an intelligent learning approach based on 
a neural network to dynamically adjust the number of 
Kanban cards in real time. The authors exploited 
a multi-objective optimization technique to determine 
the thresholds and show its interest compared to other 
works in the literature by considering nervousness.
Industry 4.0 has revolutionized traditional produc­
tion systems through digital technologies associated 
with 
production 
systems 
for 
efficiency 
and 
Customer demands 
 
Yes, capture extra card
   E
Extra cards  
Queue 
P
No
D
Kanban to MP
Yes, release extra card
Part to Customer
No 
if 
N(t) ≤ R 
and 
x(t) >0 
if 
N(t) ≥ C 
and 
x(t) < E 
MP
K 
Figure 1. Model for a single-stage adaptive kanban control 
system [17].
614
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.


--- SAYFA 5 ---
adaptability. In this context, the concept of electronic 
Kanban has gained considerable attention as a modern 
evolution of the traditional Kanban system. In 
e-Kanban, the Kanban message or order operates in 
electronic form using information technology tools. 
The traditional paper-based Kanban system has 
become obsolete due to various drawbacks. After the 
introduction of the electronic Kanban, barcodes, QR 
codes and RFID became common techniques for mak­
ing information flows visible throughout the produc­
tion or supply chain to increase the flexibility of 
systems [29]. Indeed, the adoption of electronic 
Kanban cards offers several advantages over tradi­
tional physical systems, improving efficiency and accu­
racy in a variety of operational contexts. These benefits 
include improved data precision, real-time monitoring 
and improved accessibility, which collectively contri­
bute to better decision-making and operational per­
formance [30,31].
The application of Kanban is not limited to industrial 
production systems, but also extends to other areas, 
such as healthcare systems and pharmaceutical stock 
management. For example, Sriyanto and Ika [32] have 
demonstrated the effectiveness of e-Kanban in hospital 
pharmacies to minimize waste, optimize stock levels 
and simplify management processes. Furthermore, in 
the automotive industry, Candea and Gabor [33] illu­
strated that the implementation of the Kanban system 
as part of a customized approach ensured that the 
specific needs of companies. Furthermore, Fuentes-del- 
Burgo et al [34] highlight the success of Kanban in 
construction, where it is used for supply chain manage­
ment, Just-In-Time planning and work coordination via 
the Last Planner System. Their study also highlights the 
evolution toward e-Kanban systems and their applica­
tion in Building Information Management environ­
ments, as well as the development of new software 
applications and methods. Zeng et al. [35] demonstrate 
the use of a building information modeling-enabled 
e-Kanban system for demand-driven replenishment in 
construction logistics, resulting in reduced waste, 
improved scheduling, and site storage optimization. 
These examples show that Kanban, and e-Kanban in 
particular, remains a modern and relevant solution in 
a variety of sectors thanks to its flexibility and alignment 
with the technologies of the 4th industrial revolution.
These studies demonstrate the polyvalence and 
adaptability of Kanban, particularly in its electronic 
form, in addressing management and coordination 
challenges in a variety of industrial and technological 
contexts. However, the effectiveness of a Kanban sys­
tem, and more specifically of an adaptive Kanban, 
relies heavily on the optimization of its parameters, 
which enables it to respond to the constant variations 
of dynamic environments and increasing operational 
requirements. Indeed, optimizing the parameters of an 
adaptive Kanban system is crucial, enhancing its 
flexibility and ability to adapt to the realities of modern 
industry.
On the other hand, evolutionary algorithms have 
proven their effectiveness in solving numerous para­
meter design problems, demonstrating better results 
than statistical methods [36]. Furthermore, the PSO 
algorithm is part of evolutionary algorithms. Inspired 
by the social behavior of insect swarms, it replicates 
the movement of a set of particles (a swarm) through 
a multidimensional space to reach the most desirable 
position. The trajectory of each particle is based not 
only on its best-achieved position but also on the best 
position achieved by any particle in the swarm, known 
to all members of the swarm. Thus, a balance between 
local and global search is maintained [37]. Unlike con­
ventional optimization methods, it is not a gradient- 
based method. PSO is considered a robust stochastic 
optimization algorithm, with less sensitivity to specific 
algorithm parameters compared to other evolutionary 
algorithms (e.g. GA). It requires fewer adjustments of 
specific algorithm parameters than other evolutionary 
algorithms [38,39].
According to the review presented by Sibalija [40], the 
PSO has many positive features that have made it very 
popular in recent years and have expanded its applica­
tion for various purposes. In addition to its unique prop­
erty of balancing between local and global search, the 
simplicity of the PSO algorithm compared to other evolu­
tionary algorithms is particularly appreciated. In the same 
study, Sibalija also presented the effectiveness of using 
the multi-objective particle swarm optimization algo­
rithm. The multi-objective approach is commonly 
employed to solve optimization problems with multiple 
responses, especially when the number of responses is 
limited. In multi-objective problems, multiple objective 
functions may be mutually conflicting, leading to 
a procedure based on a set of non-dominated solutions, 
resulting in convergence toward multiple points rather 
than a single one. In multi-objective PSO the selection of 
a global leader (gbest) is based on the Pareto dominance 
principle [40].
The effectiveness of PSO in solving large-scale global 
problems has been demonstrated in various studies [41– 
44]. In a study addressing both environmental sustain­
ability and assemblability, Chiu et al. [45] apply the PSO 
algorithm to calculate an optimal module organization as 
well as assembly methods and sequences. A case study 
on an air purifier is presented to illustrate the benefits of 
the proposed method. As a result, the redesigned pro­
duct can be more easily maintained during use and 
recycled at the end of its useful life.
In another research direction, multi-pass turning 
parameters have been optimized by several authors 
in the context of designing manufacturing process 
parameters, as detailed in the review of Sibalija [40]. 
For instance, Venkata Rao et Pawar [46] used PSO, SA, 
and artificial bee colony (ABC) for designing key milling 
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
615


--- SAYFA 6 ---
parameters (cutting speed, depth of cut, and feed per 
tooth) considering three constraints with the aim of 
reducing processing time. The results indicate that PSO 
and ABC provide a better solution than SA. 
Furthermore, PSO demonstrated slightly faster conver­
gence than ABC and significantly better convergence 
than SA.
Li et al. [47] outline the challenges faced by building 
materials equipment manufacturing enterprises in out­
sourcing resources and introduces a model and algo­
rithm for supplier selection Traditional methods are 
insufficient to meet the current requirements for evaluat­
ing and selecting outsourced suppliers. Due to traditional 
methods are insufficient to meet the current require­
ments for evaluating and selecting outsourced suppliers, 
a model for outsourcing supplier selection is established, 
considering factors such as quality, price, delivery time, 
reliability, and availability of outsourced suppliers.
In this context, this study presents an approach to 
determine the optimal values of decision variables 
based on integration of simulation and optimization. 
This approach utilizes a discrete event simulation soft­
ware coupled to the metaheuristic Particle Swarm 
Optimization.
2.2. Use of the simulation
Simulation stands as a widely utilized tool that offers 
numerous advantages dealing with stochastic and 
complex dynamic behaviors in a realistic manner, with­
out relying on restrictive assumptions [2,5]. One sig­
nificant benefit is the ability to incorporate fluctuations 
in customer demand. Specifically, the average demand 
rate can be modeled to dynamically evolve over time 
based on various signals, which can be simulated 
alongside the stochastic nature of order arrivals. This 
enables the exploration of scenarios where customer 
demand is unpredictable, eliminating the need for 
order arrival information or forecasting [8,25].
Several studies have highlighted the potential of 
simulation for optimizing and evaluating production 
systems, particularly in situations where stochastic 
and complex behaviors need to be taken into 
account [48]. Jahangirian et al. [49] provide 
a detailed review of the use of simulation in manu­
facturing and business sectors, emphasizing that 
simulation is a useful tool for decision-making, espe­
cially in complex or uncertain situations. Iwase and 
Ohno [50] evaluated the performance of a multi- 
stage JIT production system using a simulation 
model, showing that optimizing production capacity 
can significantly improve the overall performance of 
the production system. Additionally, Sagawa and 
Nagano [51] also used simulation models to model 
the dynamics of an adaptive multi-product manufac­
turing system, demonstrating that simulation is an 
effective tool for managing the stochastic and 
complex behaviors of the system, as well as for tak­
ing into account fluctuations in customer demand.
In an extensive review of recent literature, Ghasemi 
et al [52] demonstrate the growing interest in applying 
simulation optimization techniques to production plan­
ning particularly in the context of Industry 4.0. This 
review identifies current gaps, including the need for 
more integrated frameworks to address uncertainty, 
optimization and simulation in dynamic environments. 
Indeed, the focus on Industry 4.0 highlights the poten­
tial of Simulation Optimization to provide real-time deci­
sion support tools, addressing the planning and control 
needs of modern production systems.
In the context of integrating optimization with 
simulation, this study proposes an approach based 
on optimization via simulation to evaluate the perfor­
mance of an adaptive Kanban system. Specifically, 
a discrete-event simulation is employed to reproduce 
the dynamic behavior of the production system. The 
PSO algorithm is used to generate potential solutions, 
which are then evaluated within the simulation frame­
work. This integration enables accurate estimation of 
the objective function, which aims to reduce produc­
tion costs while maintaining high levels of service, 
taking into account the stochastic and dynamic nature 
of the system. This contribution highlights the effec­
tiveness of the proposed approach in addressing the 
challenges of parameter optimization for adaptive 
Kanban systems in complex and variable production 
environments.
3. Method
3.1. Mathematical formulation of the 
optimization problem
The objective of the AKS is to minimize the cost asso­
ciated with the backorder and the inventory. Let 
X ¼ K; E; R; C
½
 is the setting vector to be optimized, 
X 2 S with S represents the set of all possible settings. 
Therefore, the objective function corresponding to the 
production cost can be expressed as follow: 
Where
FP : the average stock of finished products.
WIP: evaluated as the average difference between 
the number of products entering and exiting.
B : represents the average number of demand wait­
ing a finished product.
b : represents the backorder penalty cost.
In order to ensure that the system is able to return 
to the initial state, following inequality constraints 
must be satisfied: 
616
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.


--- SAYFA 7 ---
3.2. Optimization via simulation for design of AKS
The evaluation of the fitness function is a crucial step in 
the PSO algorithm as it measures the quality of the solu­
tion associated with each particle in the search space. To 
evaluate the fitness function, the PSO algorithm must 
execute the corresponding Arena model for the decision 
parameters of the particle being evaluated. The Arena 
model is a representation of the adaptive Kanban system 
in terms of processes, resources, workflow, constraints, 
etc. The model must be compiled to generate the execu­
table file (.p). This file contains the compiled Arena model, 
ready to be executed by the PSO algorithm. At each 
iteration, the algorithm evaluates the quality of the solu­
tion of each particle using the Rockwell Arena model with 
the decision parameters of the particle. The PSO algo­
rithm can produce relevant results that reflect the perfor­
mance of the adaptive Kanban system for that particle in 
terms of cost. Figure 2 shows the communication flow 
between the adaptive Kanban system simulated by the 
discrete event simulation tool Arena and the PSO optimi­
zation algorithm developed by the Python programming 
language.
PSO is a popular metaheuristic algorithm that 
mimics the behavior of bird swarms and groups of 
fish. It was first introduced by Kennedy and Eberhart 
in 1995 for complex, non-linear, multi-dimensional 
optimization proposals [13]. The algorithm has several 
advantages, including its simplicity, efficiency, fast 
convergence and ease of implementation.
3.3. Particle swarm optimization algorithm
PSO algorithm offers several advantages as an optimi­
zation technique, particularly in complex problem- 
solving scenarios like adaptive Kanban systems. We 
use the PSO for many reasons, which are detailed as 
follows:
Optimization efficiency: As a stochastic algorithm 
based on a population approach, PSO is able to efficiently 
explore large search spaces, which ensures high optimi­
zation efficiency. As a result, it is suitable for both single- 
objective and multi-objective optimization tasks [53].
Versatility and adaptability: The algorithm has been 
successfully applied in various fields, including health, 
environmental sciences and industrial applications, 
demonstrating its flexibility. In addition, different variants 
of PSO improve its ability to solve complex problems, 
further extending its applicability [54]. Furthermore, the 
collective intelligence allows PSO to converge toward 
optimal solutions faster than many other optimization 
methods, such as genetic algorithms [55].
Robustness and stability: PSO algorithms demon­
strate notable stability and convergence characteris­
tics, which are essential for tackling problems that are 
poorly defined [56].
Simplicity of implementation: PSO is relatively 
easy to implement and requires fewer parameters to 
tune compared to other algorithms, making it accessi­
ble for various applications in manufacturing and logis­
tics [57].
Although the PSO algorithm has several advan­
tages, including its simplicity as it requires fewer para­
meters than many other optimization techniques, its 
efficiency, rapid convergence and ease of implementa­
tion, it is essential to take into account the potential 
limitations, such as sensitivity to parameter settings 
and the risk of premature convergence, which can 
affect its performance in certain scenarios [58].
In PSO, a population of particles (representing can­
didate solutions) moves through the search space 
toward the optimal solution based on their own best 
known position and the global best known position 
[13]. PSO has been applied successfully to solve various 
optimization problems, such as function optimization, 
clustering, and classification. PSO has also been shown 
to be effective in solving complex optimization pro­
blems with high-dimensional search spaces. Figure 3 
illustrates the strategy for moving a particle in its 
environment.
Particle movement is influenced by three main com­
ponents: the inertia component, the cognitive compo­
nent and the social component. Each of these 
components plays a crucial role in determining how 
particles adjust their position in the search space, 
Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm 
Discrete Event Simulation 
Arena model 
Executable file (.p) 
Particles vector 
[K, E, R, C] 
Performance 
Evaluation (Z) 
Figure 2. Communication between simulated system and PSO 
algorithm.
Current position 
X(t) 
New position 
X(t+1) 
Swarm best 
performance
gbest
Personal best performance 
pbest
To the point reached at current velocity
Figure 3. Particle’s position displacement.
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
617


--- SAYFA 8 ---
enabling the PSO algorithm to efficiently search for 
optimal solutions in complex problem spaces [13]:
●The inertia (physical) component: represents the 
natural tendency of a particle to continue moving 
in its current direction as a function of its previous 
speed, and helps to maintain a balance between 
exploration and exploitation.
●The cognitive component: reflects the particle’s own 
experience by directing the particle to move toward 
its personal best position (pbest), which represents 
the best solution it has found so far. This component 
encourages individual exploration, allowing parti­
cles to refine their search based on their own suc­
cesses. The cognitive aspect is important to ensure 
that particles not only rely on the best solutions in 
the swarm, but also take into account their own 
discoveries.
●The social component: represents the influence of 
the swarm as a whole, and encourages the particle 
to move toward the best global position (gbest), 
which is the best solution found by all its neighbors. 
This component encourages collaboration between 
particles by enabling them to share information 
about the best areas of the search space. The social 
aspect enables the swarm to converge toward opti­
mal solutions by taking advantage of collective 
intelligence.
Each particle of the swarm at time t is characterized by: 
X (its position in the search space), V (its velocity), pbest 
(the position of the best solution through which it has 
passed) and gbest (the position of the best known solu­
tion of the whole swarm). The adaptation of the particle 
between iterations t and t + 1 is done according to the 
following two equations (5) and (6): 
Where w is the coefficient of inertia which was intro­
duced by Shi and Eberhart [59] to control the influence of 
the direction of the particle on the future displacement. 
The purpose of introducing this parameter is to achieve 
a balance between exploitation (local search) and 
exploration (global search). Some strategies for adjusting 
the coefficients include gradually reducing w over itera­
tions to improve convergence [60]. The dynamic inertia 
coefficient is set according the following equation: 
With wmax and wmin are respectively the initial and 
the final inertia factor weights, iteris the maximum 
iteration number and t is the current iteration number.
Thanks to its specific balance between local and 
global search, the PSO algorithm has a lower risk to 
being trapped in a local solution than the majority of 
evolutionary algorithms. However, improper config­
uration of algorithm-specific parameters can lead to 
premature convergence. According to various authors 
[37,61], it is crucial to carefully examine these para­
meters to ensure optimal performance.
c1 and c2 are two constants that represent the accel­
eration coefficients, they can be non-constant in some 
cases depending on the optimization problem posed 
[13]. As indicated in (5), constants c1 and c2 pulls each 
particle toward pbest positions (cognitive component 
of velocity) and gbest positions (social component of 
velocity). r1 and r2 are two random numbers generated 
in the interval [0,1].
The main steps of the PSO algorithm are as fol­
lows [13]:
●1) Initialization: A number of particles are initia­
lized with random positions in the search space, 
and each particle is assigned an initial velocity.
●2) Evaluation: The quality of each solution repre­
sented by the particles’ positions is evaluated 
using the cost function.
●3) Update of personal best solution (pbest): If 
a particle finds a more efficient solution than its 
previous personal best solution, this new solution 
is recorded as the new personal best solution.
●4) Update of global best solution (gbest): The 
most efficient personal solution among all parti­
cles is recorded as the global best solution.
●5) Update of velocity: The velocity of each particle 
is updated based on its own position, personal 
best solution, and global best solution using (5).
●6) Update of position: The position of each parti­
cle is updated based on its velocity using (6)
●7) Repeat steps 2–6 until the stopping criterion is 
reached, typically a maximum number of 
iterations.
●8) Return the recorded global solution as the 
optimal solution.
3.4. Determination of the control parameters
In this work, each particle of the swarm is represented 
by a vector of decision variables X ¼ K; E; R; C
½
 repre­
senting number of kanban cards, number of extra 
cards, release threshold, and capture threshold, 
respectively.
3.4.1. PSO initialization
Initialize randomly the particle population array. Initial 
population is generated randomly subjected to con­
straints (2), (3) and (4). To do this, the decision variables 
are initialized randomly as expressed by (8), knowing 
618
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.


--- SAYFA 9 ---
that Kmax and Emax designate respectively the maximum 
number of fixed cards and that of additional cards. 
Let us note that the population size of PSO algo­
rithm should be large enough to adequately cover the 
solution space without incurring excessive computa­
tional effort.
3.4.2. Correction and updating of velocity and 
position
The position and velocity are updated according (5) 
and (6). Furthermore, when the particles in the PSO 
algorithm must respect constraints, such as a domain’ 
membership, it is important to adapt the model to 
consider them. A constraint checking strategy has 
been implemented to handle the constraints in the 
PSO algorithm. After having updated the position of 
the particle, we check if it respects the constraints (2), 
(3) and (4). If this is not the case, the position of the 
particle is readjusted or repaired by selecting a random 
value that respects the constraints as expressed by (8).
4. Results
4.1. Description of the studied system
In this section, we introduce the single-stage adaptive 
kanban model used in this study. For comparative 
purposes, the production system considered in this 
study is taken from Tardif and Maaseidvaag [17], 
which is considered a widely used example in the 
literature. The manufacturing process considered con­
sists of a single stage of workstation with 10 parallel 
servers where processing times are exponentially dis­
tributed with a mean of 6 (or µ = 1/6). The initial state 
before receiving any demand is specified as follows: 
there exists an initial stock of K finished products 
prepared for customer delivery, no demands are back­
ordered, and the manufacturing process is idle.
The simulation models were developed using Arena 
simulation software (version 14) and the PSO algorithm 
was developed using the Python programming lan­
guage under Visual Studio Code (version 1.87). All 
experiments were carried out on a PC equipped with 
an Intel Core (TM) i5–10505 processor at 3.20 GHz, 8.00 
GB RAM and running a Windows 10 Professional 64-bit 
operating system.
In this study, we will consider four cases that 
describe different patterns for the customer demands. 
As follow, we summarize the numerical experiments’ 
parameters of each case.
●Case 1: The demand follows the Poisson process 
with rate λd ¼ 1=7 (demand mean = 7), the back­
order penalty cost “b” is 500 [17,19].
●Case 2: The demand follows the Poisson process 
with rateλd ¼ 0:2 (demand mean = 5), the back­
order penalty cost “b” is 1000 [17,19].
●Case 3: The arrival of demands is a Poisson pro­
cess follows a triangular pattern that linearly 
increases from 3 to 7 (or λd from 1/3 to 1/7) over 
75 time units. It then decreases linearly from 7 to 
3 over the next 75 time units, and this pattern 
repeats throughout the simulation run as shown 
in Figure 4(b). the backorder penalty cost “b” is 
1000 [17,62].
●Case 4 : Demand arrivals follow a cyclic Poisson 
process with varying means. Specifically, the 
demand mean for the first 25 time units is 3, for 
the next 25 time units it is 5, and for the last 25 
time units it is 7 as shown in Figure 4(a). This 
pattern repeats throughout the simulation run 
[22,62].
4.2. Computational results
To evaluate the validity of our approach, we used the 
same simulation parameters as those adopted in the 
works considered as study for comparison. The 
Figure 4. Evolution of the distribution of the average customer demand. 
(a) case 4: cyclical pattern (b) case 3: triangular pattern.
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
619


--- SAYFA 10 ---
simulation parameters were set as follows: replication 
length is equal to 1,000,000 time units, number of 
replications is 30 and warm-up period is equal to 1000.
Figure 5 shows the evolution of the objective to be 
minimized during the iterations for the third case 
where the customer demand follows a triangular 
pattern.
In our proposed PSO algorithm, the population size 
and number of generations are parameters related to the 
convergence of the algorithm. In the proposed approach, 
a population size of 20 and a number of generations 
equal to 30 were used. The individual learning factor c1 
and social learning factor c2 are both fixed to 0.5. r1 and r2 
are two random numbers generated in the interval [0,1]. 
The parameters of the dynamic inertia coefficient w are 
respectively wmin ¼ 0:5 andwmax ¼ 1. Finally, the limits 
of the design variables of the optimization problem Kmax 
and Emax are fixed respectively to 15 and 10.
The Table 1. illustrates the optimized values of 
the decision vector variables X ¼ K; E; R; C
½
 and 
the minimum cost value Z obtained for the differ­
ent optimization algorithms (LSM, GA, SA, and 
PSO), as well as for the traditional Kanban sys­
tem (TKS).
5. Discussions
As it is recommended to compare the performance of 
PSO with other optimization methods suitable for the 
specific problem to assess its relative effectiveness, we 
will conduct a comparison in this section. We compare 
the results obtained by the PSO algorithm for the AKS 
with those obtained using the Local Search Method 
(LSM) proposed by Tardif and Maaseidvaag [17], as well 
as those obtained using GA and SA proposed by 
Shahabudeen and Sivakumar [19]. These results are also 
compared to those obtained using the traditional Kanban 
system [17]. Overall, these results confirm that the inte­
gration of PSO algorithm for the design of an adaptive 
Kanban system is not only more efficient than other 
metaheuristic methods such as GA, SA and LSM, but 
also offers more significant improvements compared to 
traditional Kanban systems in terms of production cost 
minimization.
However, there are also limitations to consider. PSO 
can be sensitive to parameter choices, and poor con­
figuration can lead to premature convergence. 
Additionally, PSO’s performance can vary depending 
on the nature of the problem, and it is essential to 
understand its characteristics for effective application. 
Therefore, it is recommended to carefully adjust the 
algorithm parameters based on the specific nature of 
the problem to be solved. In our approach, several 
preliminary tests and iterative adjustments of para­
meters were conducted to achieve good results.
The results presented in Table 1 affirm the advan­
tages offered by PSO. This algorithm demonstrates 
superior performance in minimizing production costs 
compared to other metaheuristic algorithms. While 
other evolutionary algorithms involve competition 
among individuals in a population, PSO also incorpo­
rates a cooperative strategy. This unique property of 
balancing local and global search distinguishes PSO 
from other algorithms in overcoming the issue of pre­
mature convergence associated with all metaheuristics.
The proposed approach of optimizing through dis­
crete event simulation using the PSO algorithm has 
demonstrated its efficacy. Table 1 illustrates that the 
Figure 5. Evolution of the objective function during the optimization via simulation.
620
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.


--- SAYFA 11 ---
decision vector parameters for the design of an adap­
tive Kanban system obtained by PSO result in better 
outcomes in terms of minimizing production costs.
Table 2 illustrates the percentage improvement 
achieved by our approach compared to other 
approaches in terms of the objective function.
For pull systems, taking into account the stochastic 
fluctuation of customer demand is crucial. The design 
of an adaptive kanban system with optimal decision 
parameters enables us to overcome the effects of 
these fluctuations. The proposed method has demon­
strated convergence even in cases where the average 
demand is fluctuating, as shown in cases 3 and 4. This 
demonstrates that PSO is regarded as a robust stochas­
tic optimization algorithm, in terms of being less sen­
sitive to specific algorithm parameters compared to 
other evolutionary algorithms (GA and SA).
6. Concluding remarks
In conclusion, the proposed PSO-based approach 
provides a promising solution for the design and 
optimization of an adaptive Kanban system. This 
dynamic adjustment approach allows the system 
to consider stochastic and time-changing demand, 
while simultaneously optimizing key performance 
metrics such as inventory cost. The simulation 
coupled to optimization framework ensures that 
the system is optimized for realistic scenarios and 
allows for evaluation of different scenarios before 
implementation. The results of the case study 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
approach in improving system performance and 
highlight its potential for application in a range of 
manufacturing environments. More precisely, our 
results indicate that the proposed approach has 
provided an improvement of up to 23% compared 
to classical approaches and up to 12% compared to 
other metaheuristics such as GA and SA. Overall, the 
PSO-based approach represents a valuable contribu­
tion to the field of adaptive Kanban systems and 
provides a useful tool for practitioners seeking to 
enhance the efficiency and responsiveness of their 
production systems.
However, this study is not without its limitations. 
First, the model developed relies on specific 
assumptions regarding demand patterns and sys­
tem behavior, which may not fully capture the com­
plexities of all real-world environments. Future 
research could explore a wider range of demand 
scenarios, including extreme fluctuations and long- 
term trends, to validate the robustness of the pro­
posed approach.
Furthermore, this study focused primarily on 
a single production environment; thus, its findings 
may not be generalizable across different industries 
or production settings. Expanding the scope of future 
studies to include diverse manufacturing contexts 
would provide a more comprehensive understanding 
of how adaptive Kanban systems can be optimized.
Despite the promising results of this study, several 
perspectives for future research are opened. First, inte­
grating advanced machine learning techniques, such 
as reinforcement learning or deep learning, could 
enhance the decision-making process and improve 
the system’s ability to eliminate the effect of unpre­
dictable demand fluctuations on production costs. 
Secondly, increased product diversification makes 
planning, scheduling and balancing production flows 
even more complex. The ability to manage these chal­
lenges effectively has become crucial for companies 
operating in multi-product environments. Developing 
adaptive and intelligent management strategies is 
becoming essential to meet the challenges of a multi- 
product and uncertain environment. Thirdly, a multi- 
objective optimization approach using PSO could be 
developed to address not only production cost mini­
mization and customer satisfaction, but also the pro­
blem of over-correction in terms of the frequency of 
Kanban card adjustments. This extension would allow 
the system to achieve a more stable and efficient 
production flow while maintaining its capacity to be 
Table 1 Comparison of simulation results.
cases
TKS [17]
LSM [17]
GA [19]
SA [19]
Proposed approach 
PSO
Z
K
Z
X*
Z
X*
Z
X*
Z
X*
1
5.2
5
5.1
5, 6, 1, 2
4.7
3, 12, 3, 4
4.53
4, 6, 2, 3
4.41
3,2,3,4
2
6.39
6
5.61
4, 6, 3, 4
5.61
4, 6, 3, 4
5.61
4, 6, 3, 4
4.89
4,3,3,4
3
7.18
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
5,99
5, 5,3,4
4
7.35
7
6.25
4, 6, 3, 4
-
-
-
-
6.11
5, 5,3,4
Table 2 Percentage improvement achieved by PSO algorithm.
cases
TKS [17]
LSM [17]
GA [19]
SA [19]
1
15.19%
13.53%
6.17%
2.64%
2
23.47%
12.83%
12.83%
12.83%
3
16.57%
-
-
-
4
16.87%
2.24%
-
-
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
621


--- SAYFA 12 ---
adapted. These lines of research offer great potential 
for improving the adaptability and robustness of 
Kanban-based production systems.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to express their gratitude to the 
editors and the anonymous reviewers for their promotional 
comments and constructive suggestions regarding the revi­
sion of the study.
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the 
author(s).
Notes on contributors
Dr. Khouloud Elloumi received her Electrical Engineering 
degree from the National School of Engineers of Sfax, 
Tunisia, in 2009, followed by a Research Master’s degree in 
Control and Industrial Computer Science in 2010. She earned 
her Doctorate in Electrical Engineering from the same insti­
tution in 2017. Currently, she is a researcher at the LR-OASIS 
laboratory at the National School of Engineers of Tunis, 
Tunisia. Her research focuses on smart control, optimization, 
and simulation of manufacturing.
Dr. Achraf Ammar is an Associate Professor in Industrial 
Engineering, IIT-Sfax-Tunisia. He is IIT’s director of interna­
tional relations. In addition to numerous Erasmus projects 
and international partnerships, he served as a local coordi­
nator for the Enhance project (Erasmus + CBHE). He greatly 
contributed to strengthen and accredit the industrial engi­
neering program (EUR-ACE label with ASIIN) as head of the 
industrial department for around ten years. By using optimi­
zation and advanced computational techniques, he has also 
taken part in numerous industrial research initiatives.
Dr. Mounir Benaissa, is a Professor and Director of Higher 
Institute of Industrial Management of Sfax (University Of 
Sfax). He obtained his PhD and his habilitation in Industrial 
Engineering from University of Le Havre (France) in 2006 and 
2013. Dr. Mounir Benaissa has held academic positions at Le 
Havre University (France), University Carthage (Tunisia), 
College of Engineering ,Taif University(KSA) and University 
of Sfax (Tunisia). He is co-founder of IEEE ITS Tunisian chapter 
and IEEE Senior Member. He is founder and chair or IEEE 
ICALT (IEEE International Conference on Advanced Logistics 
and Transport). He was guest editor of special issues of 
international journals (e.g. International Journal of Business 
Performance and Supply Chain Modelling, International 
Journal 
of 
Services 
and 
Operations 
Management, 
International Journal of Shipping and Transport Logistics, 
World Review of Intermodal Transportation Research, 
Applied Management Science… he has authored or co- 
authored more than 50 scientific papers, with more than 10 
international journal papers and contributed, with invited 
chapters to edited books. His research interests include 
(Information system, Supply Chain Management, Reverse 
logistics, Logisctics optimization).
ORCID
Khouloud Elloumi 
http://orcid.org/0009-0009-1966-6420
Achraf Ammar 
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6168-6729
Mounir Benaissa 
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0487-1877
Data availability statement
The data that support the findings of this study are available 
from the corresponding author, upon reasonable request.
References
[1] Kagermann 
H, 
Helbig 
J, 
Wahlster 
W. 
Recommendations for implementing the strategic 
initiative INDUSTRIE 4.0: securing the future of 
German manufacturing Industry ; final report of the 
industrie 4.0 working group. Forschungsunion; 2013.
[2] Caggiano A, Bruno G, Teti R. Integrating optimisation 
and simulation to solve manufacturing scheduling 
problems. Procedia CIRP. 2015;28:131–136. doi: 10. 
1016/j.procir.2015.04.022  
[3] Law AM. Simulation modeling & analysis. New York, 
NY, USA: McGraw-Hill; 2015.
[4] AL-Khazraji H, Cole C, Guo W. Optimization and simu­
lation of dynamic performance of production–inven­
tory systems with multivariable controls. Mathematics. 
2021;9(5):568. doi: 10.3390/math9050568  
[5] Li YF, Ng SH, Xie M, et al. A systematic comparison of 
metamodeling techniques for simulation optimization 
in decision support systems. Appl Soft Comput. 
2010;10(4):1257–1273. doi: 10.1016/j.asoc.2009.11.034  
[6] Pierreval E, Daures A, Both T, Szimczak S, Gonzalez P, 
Framinan J. A simulation optimization approach for 
reactive ConWIP systems. 8th EUROSIM Congress on 
Modelling and Simulation, IEEE; 2013. p. 415–420. doi:  
10.1109/EUROSIM.2013.78  
[7] Xu J, Huang E, Hsieh L, et al. Simulation optimization in 
the era of industrial 4.0 and the industrial internet. 
J Simul. 2016;10(4):310–320. doi: 10.1057/s41273- 
016-0037-6  
[8] Azouz N, Silva Belisário L, Ammar A, et al. Addressing 
over-correction in adaptive card-based pull control 
systems. Int J Comput Integr Manuf. 2018;31 
(12):1189–1204. doi: 10.1080/0951192X.2018.1509132  
[9] Moeuf A, Pellerin R, Barbaray R, Le Juste à temps dans 
les PME à l’ère de l’industrie 4.0. 15e Colloque National 
AIP-Priméca; 2017.
[10] Price W, Gravel M, Nsakanda AL. A review of optimisa­
tion models of Kanban-based production systems. Eur 
J Oper Res. 1994;75(1):1–12. doi: 10.1016/0377- 
2217(94)90182-1  
[11] González-R PL, Framinan JM, Ruiz-Usano R. A response 
surface methodology for parameter setting in 
a dynamic conwip production control system. 
Int J Manuf Technol Manag. 2011;23(1–2):16–33. doi:  
10.1504/IJMTM.2011.042106  
[12] Hall RW, Production A, So AP& IC. Zero inventories 
Available from: https://books.google.co.ma/books? 
id=MJU6wUhHChkC , et al.
[13] Kennedy J, Eberhart R. Particle swarm optimization. 
Proc 
ICNN95 
- 
Int 
Conf 
Neural 
Netw. 
1995;4:1942–1948.
622
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.


--- SAYFA 13 ---
[14] Gupta SM, Yay A-T. An algorithm to dynamically adjust 
the number of kanbans in stochastic processing times 
and variable demand environment. Prod Plan Control. 
1997;8(2):133–141. doi: 10.1080/095372897235398  
[15] Gupta SM, Yay A-T. Adapting just-in-time manufactur­
ing systems to preventive maintenance interruptions. 
Prod Plan Control. 1998;9(4):349–359. doi: 10.1080/ 
095372898234073  
[16] Takahashi K, Morikawa K, Nakamura N. Reactive JIT 
ordering system for changes in the mean and variance 
of demand. Int J Prod Econ. 2004;92(2):181–196. doi:  
10.1016/j.ijpe.2003.10.014  
[17] Tardif V, Maaseidvaag L. An adaptive approach to 
controlling kanban systems. Eur J Oper Res. 2001;132 
(2):411–424. doi: 10.1016/S0377-2217(00)00119-3  
[18] Shahabudeen P, Sivakumar GD. An approach to adap­
tive kanban system. International conference, Society 
of Operational Management, IIM; Indore, India; 2003.
[19] Shahabudeen P, Sivakumar GD. Algorithm for the 
design of single-stage adaptive kanban system. 
Comput Ind Eng. 2008;54(4):800–820. doi: 10.1016/j. 
cie.2007.10.017  
[20] Sivakumar GD, Shahabudeen P. Design of multi-stage 
adaptive kanban system. Int J Adv Manuf Technol. 
2008;38(3–4):321–336. doi: 10.1007/s00170-007-1093-x  
[21] Sivakumar GD, Shahabudeen P. Algorithms for the 
design of a multi-stage adaptive kanban system. 
Int J Prod Res. 2009;47(23):6707–6738. doi: 10.1080/ 
00207540802302071  
[22] Belisario LS, Azouz N, Pierreval H. Adaptive ConWIP: 
analyzing the impact of changing the number of cards. 
2015 
International 
Conference 
on 
Industrial 
Engineering and Systems Management (IESM). 
Seville, Spain: IEEE; 2015 Feb 21. p. 930–937. 
Available from: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/ 
7380266/ 
[23] Manupati VK, Anand R, Thakkar JJ, et al. Adaptive 
production control system for a flexible manufacturing 
cell using support vector machine-based approach. 
Int J Adv Manuf Technol. 2013;67(1–4):969–981. doi:  
10.1007/s00170-012-4541-1  
[24] Renna P. A fuzzy control system to adjust the number 
of cards in a conwip-based manufacturing system. 
Int J Serv Oper Manag. 2015;20(2):188. doi: 10.1504/ 
IJSOM.2015.067476  
[25] Elloumi K, Saidi C, Azouz N, et al. An intelligent 
approach to adapting Kanban cards with fuzzy con­
troller for pull production control. Annals of 
Operations Research. 2023.doi: 10.1007/s10479-023- 
05690-y  
[26] Elloumi K, Saidi C, Benaissa M. Design of a fuzzy con­
troller for intelligent control of an adaptive ConWIP 
system. 2023 int conf innov intell syst appl INISTA. 
2023. p. 1–6. Available from: https://ieeexplore.ieee. 
org/document/10310331 
[27] Xanthopoulos AS, Koulouriotis DE, Gasteratos A. 
Adaptive card-based production control policies. 
Comput Ind Eng. 2017;103:131–144. doi: 10.1016/j. 
cie.2016.11.019  
[28] Azouz N, Pierreval H. Adaptive smart card-based pull 
control systems in context-aware manufacturing sys­
tems: 
training 
a 
neural 
network 
through 
multi-objective simulation optimization. Appl Soft 
Comput. 2019;75:46–57. doi: 10.1016/j.asoc.2018.10.051  
[29] Pekarcikova M, Trebuna P, Kliment M, et al. Material 
flow 
optimization 
through 
E-Kanban 
system 
simulation. Int j simul Model. 2020;19(2):243–254. doi:  
10.2507/IJSIMM19-2-513  
[30] Purba VCS, Lalujan V, Phangnesia C. An implementa­
tion of internet of things for digitalization of kanban 
production system. J Sist Cerdas. 2024;7(1):87–97. doi:  
10.37396/jsc.v7i1.383  
[31] Thao V, Chi H, Hop N. Combining blockchain with an 
E-Kanban system for pull leveling of an assembly line. 
14th Int Conf Knowl Syst Eng KSE; Nha Trang, Vietnam; 
IEEE; 2022. p. 1–6. doi: 10.1109/KSE56063.2022. 
9953614  
[32] Sriyanto S, Ika RD. DESIGNING an E-KANBAN SYSTEM 
to IMPROVE DRUG AVAILABILITY and MINIMISE 
INVENTORY WASTE at the HOSPITAL PHARMACY 
INSTALLATION. Jti Undip J Tek Ind. 2024;19(2):70–73. 
doi: 10.14710/jati.19.2.70-73  
[33] Candea S, Gabor MR. Effects of using kanban system in 
automotive industry. A case study. In: Moldovan L 
Gligor A, editors. 17th int conf interdiscip eng. Cham: 
Springer Nature Switzerland; 2024. p. 362–374.
[34] Fuentes-Del-Burgo J, Fernandez JPR, Navarro-Astor E. 
Kanban applied to construction: a literature review. 
Construction Economics and Building. 2024;24(4/5). 
doi: 10.5130/AJCEB.v24i4/5.8642  
[35] Zeng N, Ye X, Liu Y, et al. Bim-enabled Kanban system 
in construction logistics for real-time demand report­
ing and pull replenishment. Eng Constr Archit Manag. 
2023;31(8):3069–3096. doi: 10.1108/ECAM-01-2022- 
0036  
[36] Rao RV, Kalyankar VD. Optimization of modern 
machining processes using advanced optimization 
techniques: a review. Int J Adv Manuf Technol. 
2014;73(5–8):1159–1188. doi: 10.1007/s00170-014- 
5894-4  
[37] Banks A, Vincent J, Anyakoha C. A review of particle 
swarm optimization. Part I: background 
and 
development. Nat Comput. 2007;6(4):467–484. doi:  
10.1007/s11047-007-9049-5  
[38] Wahab MNA, Nefti-Meziani S, Atyabi A, et al. 
A comprehensive review of swarm optimization 
algorithms. PLoS One. 2015;10(5):e0122827. doi: 10. 
1371/journal.pone.0122827  
[39] Bonyadi MR, Michalewicz Z. Particle swarm optimiza­
tion for single objective continuous space problems: a 
review. Evol Comput. 2017;25(1):1–54. doi: 10.1162/ 
EVCO_r_00180  
[40] Sibalija TV. Particle swarm optimisation in designing 
parameters of manufacturing processes: a review (­
2008–2018). Appl Soft Comput. 2019;84:105743. doi:  
10.1016/j.asoc.2019.105743  
[41] Bento MEC. A hybrid particle swarm optimization algo­
rithm for the wide-area damping control design. IEEE 
Trans. Ind. Inf. 2022;18(1):592–599. doi: 10.1109/TII. 
2021.3054846  
[42] Nzale W, Ashourian H, Mahseredjian J, et al. A tool for 
automatic determination of model parameters using 
particle swarm optimization. Electr Power Syst Res. 
2023;219:109258. doi: 10.1016/j.epsr.2023.109258  
[43] Qiu B, Zhang J, Yang Y, et al. Research on oil well 
production prediction based on GRU-KAN Model opti­
mized by PSO. Energies. 2024;17(21):5502. doi: 10. 
3390/en17215502  
[44] Yavuz A, Celik N, Chen C-H, et al. A sequential 
sampling-based particle swarm optimization to con­
trol droop coefficients of distributed generation units 
in microgrid clusters. Electr Power Syst Res. 
2023;216:109074. doi: 10.1016/j.epsr.2022.109074  
JOURNAL OF INDUSTRIAL AND PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
623


--- SAYFA 14 ---
[45] Chiu M-C, Chang C-H, Chen Y-T, et al. Redesign for 
sustainability and assemblability using particle swarm 
optimization method. J Ind Prod Eng. 2016;33 
(2):103–113. doi: 10.1080/21681015.2015.1111264  
[46] Venkata Rao R, Pawar PJ. Parameter optimization of a 
multi-pass milling process using non-traditional opti­
mization algorithms. Appl Soft Comput. 2010;10 
(2):445–456. doi: 10.1016/j.asoc.2009.08.007  
[47] Li Y, Ding K, Wang L, et al. An optimizing model for 
solving outsourcing supplier selecting problem based 
on particle swarm algorithm. J Ind Prod Eng. 2018;35 
(8):526–534. doi: 10.1080/21681015.2018.1533893  
[48] Kelton WD, Sadowski RP, Zupick NB. Simulation with 
Arena. 6. ed. New York (NY): McGraw-Hill Education; 2015.
[49] Jahangirian M, Eldabi T, Naseer A, et al. Simulation in 
manufacturing and business: a review. Eur J Oper Res. 
2010;203(1):1–13. doi: 10.1016/j.ejor.2009.06.004  
[50] Iwase M, Ohno K. The performance evaluation of a 
multi-stage JIT production system with stochastic 
demand and production capacities. Eur J Oper Res. 
2011;214(2):216–222. doi: 10.1016/j.ejor.2011.04.014  
[51] Sagawa JK, Nagano MS. Modeling the dynamics of a 
multi-product manufacturing system: a real case 
application. Eur J Oper Res. 2015;244(2):624–636. doi:  
10.1016/j.ejor.2015.01.017  
[52] Ghasemi A, Farajzadeh F, Heavey C, et al. Simulation 
optimization applied to production scheduling in the 
era of industry 4.0: a review and future roadmap. J Ind 
Inf Integr. 2024;39:100599. doi: 10.1016/j.jii.2024. 
100599  
[53] Olsson AE. Particle swarm optimization: theory, techni­
ques and applications. Nova Science Publishers, Inc.; 
2010.
[54] Gad AG. Particle swarm optimization algorithm and its 
applications: a systematic review. Arch Comput 
Methods Eng. 2022;29(5):2531–2561. doi: 10.1007/ 
s11831-021-09694-4  
[55] Kundu K, Rossini M, Portioli-Staudacher A. A study of 
a kanban based assembly line feeding system through 
integration of simulation and particle swarm 
optimization. Int J Ind Eng Comput. 2019:421–442. 
doi: 10.5267/j.ijiec.2018.12.001  
[56] Fernandez Martinez JL, Fernández Alvarez JP, García 
Gonzalo ME, et al. Particle swarm optimization (PSO): 
a simple and powerful algorithm family for geophysi­
cal inversion. SEG Tech Program Expand Abstr 2008. 
Society of exploration geophysicists. 2008. p. 
3568–3571. Available from: https://library.seg.org/ 
doi/10.1190/1.3064068 
[57] Senapathi M, Drury-Grogan M. Systems thinking 
approach to implementing kanban: a case study. 
J Softw Evol Process. 2020;33(4). doi: 10.1002/smr.2322  
[58] Marini F, Walczak B. Particle swarm optimization (PSO). 
A tutorial. Chemom Intell Lab Syst. 2015;149:153–165. 
doi: 10.1016/j.chemolab.2015.08.020  
[59] Shi Y, Eberhart RC. Parameter selection in particle 
swarm optimization. In: Porto V, Saravanan N 
Waagen D, et al., editors. Evol program VII. Berlin, 
Heidelberg: Springer; 1998. p. 591–600.
[60] Shi Y, Eberhart RC. Empirical study of particle swarm 
optimization. Proc 1999 Congr Evol Comput-CEC99 
Cat No 99TH8406. 1999;3:1945–1950.
[61] Rezaee Jordehi A, Jasni J. Parameter selection in parti­
cle swarm optimisation: a survey. J Exp Theor Artif 
Intell. 2013;25(4):527–542. doi: 10.1080/0952813X. 
2013.782348  
[62] Belisário LS, Pierreval H. Using genetic programming and 
simulation to learn how to dynamically adapt the num­
ber of cards in reactive pull systems. Expert Syst Appl. 
2015;42(6):3129–3141. doi: 10.1016/j.eswa.2014.11.052
624
K. ELLOUMI ET AL.
