

--- SAYFA 1 ---
Int j simul model 19 (2020) 2, 243-254 
ISSN 1726-4529                                                                                   Original scientific paper 
https://doi.org/10.2507/IJSIMM19-2-513 
243 
 
MATERIAL FLOW OPTIMIZATION THROUGH  
E-KANBAN SYSTEM SIMULATION 
Pekarcikova, M.; Trebuna, P.; Kliment, M. & Rosocha, L. 
Technical University in Kosice, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Institute of Management, 
Industrial and Digital Engineering, Nemcovej 32, 04 200 Kosice, Slovakia 
E-Mail: miriam.pekarcikova@tuke.sk, peter.trebuna@tuke.sk, marek.kliment@tuke.sk, 
ladislav.rosocha@tuke.sk 
Abstract 
The digital evolution of lean thinking increases visibility along the whole value chain. It spreads and 
intensifies the potential of Supply Chain Collaboration in the network through the digitalization of 
orders, tracking deliveries and supplies in real-time, optimizing material and informational flows, and 
streamlining delivery time. Industry 4.0 transforms the business by creating a favourable environment 
for implementing well-known technologies from JIT/JIS and Kanban. The article aimed to map and 
create a simulation model of the production-assembly process and to propose the introduction of 
Kanban logic into material flow control. The implementation of the Kanban system and the testing of 
variant solutions using the simulation software Tecnomatix Plant Simulation made it possible to find 
the optimal solution. 
(Received in February 2020, accepted in May 2020. This paper was with the authors 1 week for 1 revision.) 
Key Words:  E-Kanban, Modelling, Simulation, Visibility, Digitalization 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1  Digital supply chain 
According to [1], European supply chain managers are talking about a key issue in 
digitization for their companies – IT integration. It is also reported that more than 80 % of 
respondents expect the integration of IT systems and data within their group to offer 
significant, high, or very high potential to improve their supply chain, and 77 % expect the 
same from IT networks with partner vendors and customers supply chain. 
 
 
Figure 1: Digital SC framework (left), digital enablers, and select implications for SC (right) [2]. 
      Businesses that invest intelligently and quickly in supply chain configurations can create a 
competitive advantage for the entire business model. Digital planning, digital delivery, digital 


--- SAYFA 2 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
244 
production, and digital logistics can be included among the key dimensions of digital supply 
chain management (see Fig. 1). 
      However, achieving the optimum result is conditioned by a system solution. Globalization 
affects the design requirements of businesses, which must flexibly adapt to peak performance 
and ensure high production variability if they want to maintain a high degree of resilience to 
competitors. This production goal can be achieved by focusing on the modularity of the 
system concept supported by functional integration, the introduction of standardization, 
standardization in product design [3-6]. 
1.2  The impact of Industry 4.0 on the Kanban concept 
The Kanban concept can be characterized as a turn-based inventory management system in an 
enterprise. The basic ideas are production to challenge and control the maximum level of 
inventory in the production system through a specified number of Kanban cards (or 
cartridges, containers). As it is strictly demand-oriented, relatively small production/transport 
batches mitigate the impact of the so-called bullwhip effect, which is one of the main 
challenges in supply chain management. 
      Kanban is suitable for low demand fluctuations and high product quality and delivery 
times. Flexible working time modifications are appropriate, as labour capacity should be 
coordinated according to actual production needs. In the traditional Kanban system, stock 
replenishment is oriented through the stock status, and the introduction of RFID technology 
will allow real-time stock monitoring. Instead of signalling material requirements via cards, 
resp. containers can be digitized using CPS/Cyber-physical system. This is the introduction of 
the so-called intelligent containers (iBin), which increase the flexibility of the supply system. 
      With the introduction of CPS, the Kanban concept aims to automate with limited and no 
human interaction, e.g. intelligent storage tanks operate on the principle of self-regulation, 
which contributes to the decentralization of the data collection and transfer process. The next 
phase concerning the coexistence of humans and robots is the question of creating fully-
fledged autonomous robotized systems, where one will provide monitoring and control 
activities [7-10]. 
In this sense, the potential is created through: 
 extension of applications such as e-Kanban, RFID technology, scanning devices with real-
time signal transmission, full visibility of all processes that are part of the Kanban system, 
 the introduction of an integrated camera system, containers equipped with CPS, which 
send data directly to the supplier, 
 equipping Kanban tanks with sensors, which in real-time, in addition to monitoring the 
stock level, also monitor other data e.g. temperature, air pressure, vibration, dustiness 
(sensitive material), 
 vertical integration in the enterprise information system, 
 decentralized decision-making and self-regulation through CPS, 
 virtualization and process simulation, 
 the introduction of autonomous transport systems of supply (dynamic Milk run) directly in 
the production hall, 
 telematics units to enable the positioning of automatic conveyors in the system. 
 
 
 
 


--- SAYFA 3 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
245 
Table I: Kanban concept in terms of Industry 4.0 technology implementation; adapted to [5-7, 10-14]. 
 
2. E-KANBAN SYSTEM USING THE SIMULATION MODELS IN TX 
PLANT SIMULATION 
The E-Kanban system is based on a virtual system in which the card is not tangible but is 
transmitted by an electronic signal to the supplier. The electronic request is automatically 
generated and sent to the vendor indicating the required quantity of products. Many of the 
required products are processed as a request, which is created using a barcode or a more 
modern QR code, which is found on all necessary components. The system uses software 
applications to create orders. An ideal type of Kanban system is E-Kanban, whose task is to 
track a certain amount of material that has been consumed or pulled by an electronic signal. 
The signal is sent directly to internal or external subcontractors. For these suppliers, the order 
is automatically processed, where the same item is replaced in the required quantity to be 
delivered within the agreed time. Electronic Kanban differs from classic Kanban in that it 
replaces Kanban cards with barcodes. It uses technology to improve the movement of material 
within production. 
2.1  Modelling and simulation the E-Kanban using Tecnomatix Plant Simulation 
Kanban system in the term of Tx Plant Simulation is consumption regulated job control in the 
area of self-regulating loops created between each successive step in the material flow. To 
create an effective Kanban system is important to [15]: 
 create linked self-regulating control loops between producer and customer, 
 implement a pick-up principle for each subsequent consumption level, 
 use the flexibility of workers and resources, 
 transfer a short-term control to the executive staff, 
 use a special Kanban card or containers to transfer information. 
      It is possible to make changes in these modular libraries are open for changes so that the 
user can modify them to meet the specific requirements. These modular libraries allow very 
efficiently creating the simulation models suitable for solving the problem of branches of 


--- SAYFA 4 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
246 
industrial practice. The simulation is created using individual frames, as Tx Plant Simulation 
is software that supports a hierarchical approach to model creation. After clicking on the 
selected frame, the individual machines are displayed. The illustration is shown in Fig. 2. 
When creating the simulation, it is necessary to create a basic frame (master), in which the 
individual Frames (machines and manual workstation) are subsequently stored. 
 
 
Figure 2: Simulation with Kanban system. 
 
      E-Kanban System advantages [15-17]: 
 "real-time" availability of all relevant Kanban information and online in the Cloud, 
 automated Kanban loops allows sent and visible the signals in real-time and on the screen 
immediately, 
 minimal effort with the fast print of Kanban cards and capture of Kanban movements, 
 low effort for the IT department and low maintenance costs, 
 visualization and control of all Kanban information in real-time, pull control available 
through E-Kanban boards, 
 available in different languages, 
 analysis and optimization – inventory levels and delivery lead-times optimization based on 
historical data; Kanban levels adjustment based on variation in demand – the potential for 
optimizations. 
3. CASE STUDY 
3.1  Description of the production process 
The case study was based on input data from a selected company whose main activity is the 
manufacture of medical devices. The company manufactures several second products that are 
used every day not only in the healthcare sector but also in the patient's home environment. 
The input material is tubing, foil, inlet valve, and boxes with appropriate instructions for the 
product. The output product is finished urinal collection bags. There are machines in the 
production process that use PLC systems designed to control machines. The machine works 
based on sliding parts that feed the foil, hose, and valve with a given dimension into a 
pressing form, which must have the exact dimensions of the urinal collecting bag. The design 


--- SAYFA 5 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
247 
of each form must match the specific type of urinal collection bag produced. The machine 
producing the above products works on the principle of a press using which it welds and cuts 
the foil together with the tube in a 10-second interval. Next to the machine is an input material 
which is inserted into the machine using a lifting tool. 
      Another part of the production is a manual workplace where valves for the machines are 
produced and then used in the production process. The valves are manufactured using a 
manual lever press. The valve consists of two parts, the lower part of the valve and the upper 
part of the so-called valve housing. When both parts are inserted into the movement, a valve 
is formed by pressing. There are several jobs in the workplace such as production operator, 
supplier, quality manager, and shift master. Two production operators work on one machine. 
      The first operator services the machine, exchanges the material, set the necessary 
dimensions and tests for damage that may occur on the final product (e.g. damaged weld, 
insufficiently welded tube). The second operator carries out the packaging of the products in 
boxes and at the same time performs a visual inspection of the individual products. After the 
packaging process, the operator inserts instructions for product use. During the manufacturing 
process that is in progress on the machine, mutual assistance between production operators is 
possible. In the event of a serious machine failure, operators leave for a manual workstation 
where time can be compensated for by producing valves. Operators change every shift so that 
the work is not monotonous. They are ranked by their shift master for a particular machine. 
3.2  Creating a simulation model in Tx Plant Simulation 
The proposed model was elaborated based on layout and data from a real functioning 
production line (process times, machines, containers, workers, output products, etc.). The 
Assembly icon was used to model the machines and packaging. Assembly station is designed 
for joining individual parts or adding components to the assembled part. It allows the 
simulation of assembly processes. Simulation of the production line in 2D – the initial state is 
processed in Fig. 3. Input information on the manufacturing process is in Table II. 
 
Table II: Input information of manufacturing process. 
 
      Its processing times are set using Table file, which is in the 10-second interval and the 
package is set to 5 minutes. Another item is to create entities that will be produced. Each 
machine produces a different product, divided by entities. The products are divided into 
entities for children bags, valve bags, bed bags, travel bags, disposable bags. The manual 
workstation will produce valves that are weighed gradually to specific machines. 
      Using the Event Controller sets the time of one change, which lasts 12 hours. Production 
is carried out by the following system, where the machine enters the foil with tubing. The 
welding process takes place in the machine and the moulding is then placed on a sliding belt 
which is moved towards the packaging. In the package, the worker performs a visual 
inspection and gradually puts it into a box of 25 bags, which form one bundle. Subsequently, 
8 of these bundles are placed in one box. 200 bags are placed in one box. After packing in 


--- SAYFA 6 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
248 
boxes, the boxes are weighed into intermediate storage. The products are again removed from 
the intermediate warehouse to the main warehouse, where they are shipped to a specific 
customer. 
 
 
Figure 3: Simulation of the production line in 2D – initial state. 
 
      One way to analyse the entire system is through the Experiment Manager icon. 
Experiment Manager lets you run multiple experiments at once. The Experiment Manager 
performs different simulations during the experiment and provides the results of these 
experiments when finished. At the end of the experiment, an overall analysis is displayed, 
showing min. and max. final products (see Fig. 4). 
3.3  Simulation model of E-Kanban in Tx Plant Simulation 
After reviewing the values, as many products as are required are not produced. One way to 
increase production efficiency is to introduce an E-Kanban system. Kanban is a well-known 
Japanese management system whose management is based on the use of cards with different 
colours to indicate stock levels and production. The main benefit of the Kanban system is to 
reduce inventory without major investment while ensuring the most perfect production 
process. The E-Kanban system is based on a virtual system in which the card is not tangible 
but is transmitted by an electronic signal to the supplier. The electronic request is 
automatically generated and sent to the vendor indicating the required quantity of products. 
Many of the required products are processed as a request, which is created using a barcode or 
a more modern QR code, which is found on all necessary components. 
      The system uses software applications to create orders. The ideal type of Kanban system 
is E-Kanban, whose task is to track a certain amount of material that has been consumed or 
pulled by an electronic signal. The signal is sent directly to internal or external subcontractors. 
For these suppliers, the order is automatically processed, where the same item is replaced in 
the required quantity to be delivered within the agreed time. Electronic Kanban differs from 
classic Kanban in that it replaces Kanban cards with barcodes. It uses technology to improve 
the movement of material within production [18, 19]. 
 


--- SAYFA 7 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
249 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Total view of experiment statistics – Experiment manager. 


--- SAYFA 8 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
250 
      The simulation is created using individual frames since the software supports a 
hierarchical modeling approach. After clicking on the selected frame, the individual machines 
are displayed. The illustration is shown in Fig. 5. When creating a simulation, it is necessary 
to create a basic frame (master), in which the individual frames (machines and manual 
workstation) are subsequently stored. 
 
 
Figure 5: Simulation model of the E-Kanban system with the illustration of selected frames – proposed 
state. 
 
      To create individual machines it is necessary to select the item Kanban from the Manage 
Class Library and then in tools, it is necessary to select the elements that control the 
machines. The Kanban input and Kanban buffer are set using Table File and Method. The 
role of these features is to control the input of plastic foils. The tubing inlet is set using 
Kanban Singl Proc, which is used to order the tubing. The selected setting is for the machine 
that enters the foil and tubing at the process interval as in the previous simulation with given 
process times. The formed bags proceed along the conveyor belt to Assembly 1, where they 
are subsequently packed. Input packs are bags and cartons that are pulled using Kanban singl 
proc from Kanban buffer. The buffer function secures the boxes by the pull principle from the 
Kanban Source input. The created machine in the frame must be terminated by output using 
the Interface function, which is needed to connect to the mainframe through which products 
are shipped to Drain. 
      The whole simulation is carried out using the thrust principle that controls the Kanban 
single proc. Kanban singl proc is set to a processing time that is zero (no production delay). 
Its function is to order material. The simulation is set to a 12-hour change that only works as a 
whole. This means that individual frames are not functional separately (they cannot be run 
separately), only as a whole. The Worker Chart function must be specified for each frame 
separately because of the use of multiple frames. The simulation procedure and output 
statistics are shown in Fig. 6. 


--- SAYFA 9 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
251 
 
 
Figure 6: Total view of simulation statistics after the second simulation run. 
 
Figure 7: Use of operators during the working shift. 


--- SAYFA 10 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
252 
      In this simulation, statistics are shown for only one frame. This statistic only shows 
product pick-up and total boxes produced. The above statistics show that for bags in which 
valves are used for their production (travel bags, bags with valves) there is a smaller quantity 
of pieces (boxes) produced. In the simulation with Kanban system, we can see an increase in 
the number of boxes produced compared to the previous simulation, for example, 87 
disposable bags were produced in 12-hour change, which means that 17400 bags were 
packed. For machine statistics, it is necessary to enter the Html report in all frame machines 
where it is necessary to play the whole simulation. The statistics will only show the statistics 
of the percentage utilization of machines. The use of operators during the working shift is 
shown in Fig. 7. 
4. CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK 
The simulations were created with the same processing times and the same arrangement of 
machines and workers. The first simulation, which was created from a real working company, 
used a toolbar with ordinary elements. To increase capacity, Experiment Manager was used to 
increase productivity only when using an additional supply or to set process times. Process 
times would lead to increased workload, which would harm product quality. Productivity 
increased by 23 % after adding a reservoir. If there were two feeders, it would represent an 
increase in further investment. With the statistics shown, it is possible to observe an increase 
in the products in the second simulation using the E-Kanban system. The E-Kanban system 
has improved not only product growth but also machine utilization and working time. 
 
Table III: Comparison of realized simulation runs. 
 
Travel 
bags 
Baby bags Disposable 
bags 
Bed bags 
Bags with 
valves 
Bags with 
hanger 
1st simulation 
51 
45 
54 
53 
45 
52 
2nd simulation 
76 
88 
87 
87 
76 
87 
Difference 
33 % 
49 % 
38 % 
39 % 
41 % 
40 % 
      Table III and Fig. 8 show the percentage difference between the two simulations. Using an 
E-Kanban system, production increased by an average of 40 %. 
 
Figure 8: Graphical display after two simulation runs. 


--- SAYFA 11 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
253 
      Compared to the simulation, the operator load is also shown. In the first simulation, the 
average utilization is 68 % and the second simulation moves with a utilization rate of 82 %. 
The second simulation points out that after the introduction of Kanban the performance 
increased by 14 % while maintaining the same process times. The introduction of the E-
Kanban system directs production towards a steady production, which results from statistics. 
The E-Kanban system produces the same number of bags produced, except for machines that 
use valves. The reason for delaying production on these machines is the more complicated 
procedure since the use of valves is required to produce bags. The simulation aimed to 
effectively increase the productivity of the finished products without changing the process 
times. The desired result was achieved using the E-Kanban system in the second simulation. 
Traditional demand forecasting and scheduling tools are unable to flexibly synchronize 
supply and demand. 
      According to sources [10-12], Industry 4.0 will increase the complexity of supply-
customer networks, increasingly need to adapt to the customer, and respond at a time that he 
is willing to accept while waiting for the product. The traditional perception of the supply 
chain as a linear system (stability and predictability) that enables the optimization of 
individual subsystems and thus obtains an optimized supply chain as a whole is no longer 
sufficient. The vision of the future is the self-regulation of enterprises, which will be based on 
the autonomous functioning and mutual communication of machines, mainly robots and 
products according to real-time information. Sensors will monitor the entire production 
process, system integration will enable customers to interact with the design and 
manufacturing process, increased machine and equipment availability, shorter production 
cycle times, faster response to customer requests due to self-regulation of entering 
transactions (without human interaction). Modern technologies based on cloud computing 
enable the transition from push systems to pull. This is because of working with information 
that is updated and supplemented daily [14, 18-24]. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This article was created by the implementation of the grant project APVV-17-0258 “Digital 
engineering elements application in innovation and optimization of production flows”, VEGA 
1/0438/20 “Interaction of digital technologies to support software and hardware communication of the 
advanced production system platform” and KEGA 001TUKE-4/2020 “Modernizing Industrial 
Engineering education to Develop Existing Training Program Skills in a Specialized Laboratory”. 
REFERENCES 
[1] TRACC. Continuous improvement: Will Industry 4.0 spell the end of lean manufacturing?, from 
https://traccsolution.com/blog/industry-4-0/, accessed on 10-02-2020 
[2] Kearney. Digital supply chains: increasingly critical for competitive edge, WHU Logistics Study 
2015, from https://www.atkearney.com/operations-performance-transformation/article?/a/digital-
supply-chains-increasingly-critical-for-competitive-edge, accessed on 10-02-2020 
[3] Zivanic, D.; Zelic, A.; Lalic, B.; Simeunovic, N.; Szabo, L. (2019). Improving the order picking 
efficiency by optimising the orders' sequence, International Journal of Simulation Modelling, 
Vol. 18, No. 1, 125-137, doi:10.2507/IJSIMM18(1)469 
[4] Chromjakova, F.; Bobak, R.; Hrusecka, D. (2017). Production process stability – core assumption 
of INDUSTRY 4.0 concept, 5th International Conference on Manufacturing, Optimization, 
Industrial and Material Engineering, 143-154 
[5] Kuperova, M.; Zatrochova, M. (2014). Logistics conceptions in the production management in 
small-and medium-sized industrial companies in the Slovak republic, Borkowski, S.; Ipavec, V. 
M. (Eds.), Toyotarity. Change Management, Aeternitas Publishing House, Alba Iulia, 135-146 


--- SAYFA 12 ---
Pekarcikova, Trebuna, Kliment, Rosocha: Material Flow Optimization through E-Kanban … 
254 
[6] Moon, S.; Ji, W.; Moon, H.; Kim, D. (2018). A simulation of order resonance phenomenon in a 
supply chain triggered by reinforcing loop, International Journal of Simulation Modelling, Vol. 
17, No. 2, 231-244, doi:10.2507/IJSIMM17(2)421 
[7] Rajnoha, R.; Galova, K.; Rozsa, Z. (2018). Measurement of impact of selected industrial 
engineering practices on companies’ economic performance, Inzinerine Ekonomika – 
Engineering Economics, Vol. 29, No. 2, 176-187, doi:10.5755/j01.ee.29.2.19871 
[8] Micieta, B.; Edl, M.; Krajcovic, M.; Dulina, L.; Bubenik, P.; Durica, L.; Binasova, V. (2018). 
Delegate MASs for coordination and control of one-directional AGV systems: a proof-of-
concept, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 94, No. 1-4, 415-
431, doi:10.1007/s00170-017-0915-8 
[9] Zhu, J.; Shao, Z. H.; Chen, C. (2019). An improved whale optimization algorithm for job-shop 
scheduling based on quantum computing, International Journal of Simulation Modelling, Vol. 
18, No. 3, 521-530, doi:10.2507/IJSIMM18(3)CO13 
[10] Bousonville, T. (2017). Logistik 4.0: Die digitale Transformation der Wertschöpfungskette, 
Springer Gabler, Wiesbaden 
[11] Grant, D. B.; Trautrims, A.; Wong, C. Y. (2017). Sustainable logistics and supply chain 
management, 2nd edition, Kogan Page, New York 
[12] Hofmann, E.; Rüsch, M. (2017). Industry 4.0 and the current status as well as future prospects on 
logistics, Computers in Industry, Vol. 89, 23-34, doi:10.1016/j.compind.2017.04.002 
[13] Grznar, P.; Gregor, M.; Mozol, S.; Krajcovic, M.; Dulina, L.; Gaso, M.; Major, M. (2019). A 
system to determine the optimal work-in-progress inventory stored in interoperation 
manufacturing buffers, Sustainability, Vol. 11, No. 14, Paper 3949, 36 pages, doi:10.3390/ 
su11143949 
[14] Fedorko, G.; Vasil, M.; Bartosova, M. (2019). Use of simulation model for measurement of 
MilkRun system performance, Open Engineering, Vol. 9, No. 1, 600-605, doi:10.1515/eng-2019-
0067 
[15] Bangsow, S. (2015). Tecnomatix Plant Simulation. Modeling and Programming by Means of 
examples, Springer, Cham 
[16] Zupancic, D.; Buchmeister, B.; Aljaz, T. (2017). Reducing the time of task execution with 
existing resources – comparison of approaches, International Journal of Simulation Modelling, 
Vol. 16, No. 3, 484-496, doi:10.2507/IJSIMM16(3)10.394 
[17] Krajcovic, M.; Hancinsky, V.; Dulina, L.; Grznar, P.; Gaso, M.; Vaculik, J. (2019). Parameter 
setting for a genetic algorithm layout planner as a toll of sustainable manufacturing, 
Sustainability, Vol. 11, No. 7, Paper 2083, 26 pages, doi:10.3390/su11072083 
[18] Stefanik, A.; Grznar, P.; Micieta, B. (2003). Tools for continual process improvement – 
simulation and benchmarking, Proceedings of the 14th International DAAAM Symposium, 443-444 
[19] Ignacz, P. (2019). Use of digital tools in logistic and production facility management for effective 
information flow, Acta Logistica, Vol. 6, No. 4, 141-146, doi:10.22306/al.v6i4.141 
[20] Straka, M.; Malindzak, D. (2009). Algorithms of capacity balancing of printing machineries for 
Alfa Foils, a.s. planning system, Acta Montanistica Slovaca, Vol. 14, No. 1, 98-102 
[21] Straka, M.; Rosova, A.; Malindzakova, M.; Khouri, S.; Culkova, K. (2018). Evaluating the waste 
incineration process for sustainable development through modelling, logistics, and simulation, 
Polish Journal of Environmental studies, Vol. 27, No. 6, 2739-2748, doi:10.15244/pjoes/81062 
[22] Pribulova, A.; Pokusova, M. (2019). Using a simulation programme to predict distortion of cast 
iron castings, Proceedings of the 19th International Multidisciplinary Scientific GeoConference, 
713-720, doi:10.5593/sgem2019/2.1/S07.093 
[23] Istokovic, D.; Perinic, M.; Dobovicek, S.; Bazina, T. (2019). Simulation framework for 
determining the order and size of the product batches in the flow shop: A case study, Advances in 
Production Engineering & Management, Vol. 14, No. 2, 166-176, doi:10.14743/apem2019.2.319 
[24] Prester, J.; Buchmeister, B.; Palčič, I. (2018). Effects of advanced manufacturing technologies on 
manufacturing company performance, Strojniski vestnik – Journal of Mechanical Engineering, 
Vol. 64, No. 12, 763-771, doi:10.5545/sv-jme.2018.5476 
 
