Proceedings of the Operational Research Society Simulation Workshop 2012 (SW12) 
B.Tjahjono, C. Heavey, S. Onggo, and D-J. van der Zee, eds. 
 
 
 
THE POTENTIAL ROLE OF OPEN SOURCE DISCRETE EVENT SIMULATION 
SOFTWARE IN THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR 
 
 
Mr. Néill Byrne 
Dr. Paul Liston 
 
 
Dublin City University 
Dublin City University 
Dublin, Ireland 
Dublin, Ireland 
neill.byrne@dcu.ie 
paul.liston@dcu.ie 
 
 
 
 
Dr. John Geraghty 
Dr. Paul Young 
 
 
Dublin City University 
Dublin City University 
Dublin, Ireland 
Dublin, Ireland 
john.geraghty@dcu.ie 
paul.young@dcu.ie 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Discrete event simulation (DES) is a valuable tool in the manufacturing sector due to its flexibility 
and ability to model even very complex systems, given sufficient time and resources. Despite its 
strengths, there seems to be less penetration in this industry than expected. Models are typically one-
off projects that are not maintained beyond the initial analysis. Industry based research conducted 
through the Irish Centre for Manufacturing Research suggests that due to cost and licensing 
restrictions, modelling is limited to a single user and consequently the associated skillsets are not 
developed more widely across the organisation. A possible solution is the use of open source DES 
which does not carry the same cost and licensing restrictions as the equivalent proprietary software. 
This paper reports on some of the open source packages currently on offer and provides a case study 
based comparison of open source and proprietary DES software. 
 
Keywords: Open source software, Simulation standards 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
The manufacturing sector has provided many interesting challenges for discrete event simulation 
(DES) modellers over the decades and there are numerous publications detailing how it has been used 
to gain tangible benefits and economic return (e.g. Harrell et al. (2010)). The ability to capture 
stochastic and dynamic behaviour and convergent material flows allows DES to more 
comprehensively represent these systems than other analysis method (Huang et al. 2003). In a recent 
review of the literature, Jahangirian et al. (2010) report that research activity in this area has seen a 
substantial increase in real problem solving, and suggest that this may be due to accumulated 
knowledge and experience in industry, the availability of tools and greater awareness of the benefits. 
While this is encouraging for the DES community, given the maturity of DES methods and the wealth 
of potential industrial applications, the authors suggest that the take-up rate of DES across 
manufacturing companies is still remarkably low and chiefly confined to large well-resourced 
organisations. 
DES has typically supported longer term strategic and capital investment decisions, and has been 
less often used to support regular or real time decision making. Consequently simulation projects are 
usually concerned with a series of once-off analyses, between which, the stakeholders go back to their 
daily activities or move on to other roles. Consequently, the momentum and experience gained is lost 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
118 
 
(Hollocks 2006). This inclination towards longer term decision making can mostly be attributed to the 
time required to complete a simulation study. The length of time from initial problem specification 
through data collection, model creation, verification and validation steps, can run to many months. 
Jahangirian et al. (2010) noted that DES does not possess the same level of stakeholder engagement as 
other analysis methods and suggest that this may be due to the “difﬁculty and time needed for data 
gathering, which usually repels stakeholders in the fast pace of today’s business”. The majority of 
manufacturing companies are aware of DES, but managers are often cynical of the potential benefits 
in their specific systems  and reluctant to commit budget allocation and resources to exploring its 
potential. 
Perhaps simulation based analysis needs to be introduced to manufacturing environments in a 
more integrated fashion than that promoted by commercial products. These products generally do 
have integration/interfacing capabilities, but as Hollocks (2001) notes, the vendors place more 
emphasis on the graphical user interface and the end customer usability. While there may be a more 
involved installation process if simulation based analysis was tightly integrated with data management 
and manufacturing execution systems, there could be a significantly greater possibility of providing 
real-time simulation-based problem-solving capability, as called for by Fowler and Rose (2004). This 
would minimise the analysis time and create opportunity for far greater utilisation of DES analysis in 
short term decision making. In regards the simulation engines that could power this analysis, open 
source DES software stands out for three reasons: firstly, the structure of open source software would 
be more amenable to integration with other applications as it could form part of, rather than interface 
with, the code of other applications. Secondly, companies may be reluctant to develop decision 
support around software that is not transparent or is exclusive to a particular vendor. Thirdly, software 
cost is often cited as an obstacle to implementation and while open source software may not be 
completely without cost, (as discussed later), it may at least, partially circumvent this obstacle. 
These considerations have prompted the authors to pose the question; “can open source DES 
software help to propagate the use of DES for multi-level decision making in manufacturing 
companies?” Open source software may not offer a panacea for all the challenges faced when using 
model-based analysis in a manufacturing company. However, it may be a potential agent in the 
instigation and continued use of simulation in areas of decision-making where proprietary software 
has gained a limited foothold (e.g. real-time decision-making and the SME market). The next section 
of this paper briefly explains what is encapsulated by the term “open source software” and what are 
the implications and limitations of its use. The subsequent sections describe some examples of 
available open source DES products and detail two case study comparisons of an open source (SimPy) 
and a proprietary (ExtendSim) product. 
2 
OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE 
Open source development involves the creation and maintenance of software that is open, transparent 
and peer-reviewed by its users. The open source community advertises its software under the Free 
Software Definition that outlines the four requirements for a software program to be defined as ‘free’ 
(http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html, accessed 30 October 2011) : 
1. The freedom to run the program, for any purpose. 
2. The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you 
wish. 
3. The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbour. 
4. The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others. 
 
Key to the continuation and promotion of open-source software is the 2nd “freedom” which 
insists that if you change the source code or software in any way, you must then release it under open 
source licensing. This prevents open source code from becoming locked into proprietary software and 
prevents the code from disappearing from the open source realm. This can be a concern for 
commercial software developers who wish to use open source code within their proprietary software. 
However, it does not mean that the code cannot be used in commercial software, on the contrary, it 
means that if you edit or change the open source code you must release it under an open source 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
119 
 
licence. Examples in the industry include open source Linux kernels, being used to create commercial 
computer operating systems such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux. 
There is very little (if any) literature or evidence regarding open source DES software adoption in 
the manufacturing sector. However, it is possible to draw some conclusions from the wealth of 
literature that discusses the views of open source software in companies and infer similar reasoning as 
to why open source DES software appears to be non-existent in the manufacturing sector. Ven et al. 
(2008) state that there are many claims and counter-claims about the benefits of open source software 
and Goode (2005) conducted a survey of a number of Australian businesses, regarding their rejection 
or dismissal of open source software in their company (see Fig. 1). He suggests that there may be a 
potential role for a “technology champion” to raise awareness of the open source alternatives within 
the company and to assuage some of the common misconceptions. 
 
 
Figure 1 Reasons for rejecting open source software, Goode (2005). 
Within the ICMR group it was found that the partner companies rarely reviewed all of the 
proprietary software before purchasing a simulation engine, and that none were even aware that open 
source alternatives existed. It was also difficult for them to assess any DES software during initial 
procurement as they were unaware of the project requirements, and in general, their journeys in 
simulation projects were very organic. 
3 
REVIEW OF OPEN SOURCE DES SOFTWARE 
This section describes some of the available open source DES software. The list is not intended to be 
exhaustive but highlights the “easily-discoverable” open source DES packages with sufficient online 
activity and documentation to warrant inclusion here. 
3.1 
SimPy 
SimPy (http://simpy.sourceforge.net/) short for Simulation in Python is a library for process-driven 
discrete event simulation written in the high level general purpose programming language Python. 
SimPy utilises  Python’s object oriented structure to offer a number of objects that represent common 
structures in the real world system, where entities compete for resources. Creation of this simulator 
was made possible by the inclusion of generators in Python version 2.3. A generator is similar to a 
function but differs in that it retains a memory of its variables and returns values at a number of 
different points in the generator function. This means that the process or lifecycle of an entity, more 
commonly known as a Process Execution Method (PEM) can be captured in a generator, which yields 
control to other entity PEMs or back to the main loop of the program. For example, the following 
code simulates the arrival of parts to a queueing buffer every 2 hours by defining an entity (or class) 
known as Source which is a subclass of the main SimPy PEM class Process. 
 
 
 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
120 
 
 
class Source(Process): 
 
 
def run(self): 
 
 
 
while 1: # infinite loop 
 
 
 
 
yield put, self, buff, 1 # add 1 to the buffer 
 
 
 
 
yield hold, self, 2 # wait for 2 hours 
 
The PEM operates in an infinite loop of adding 1 to a buffer using the yield put command 
and then waiting for 2 hours using the yield hold command, before repeating the process. These 
types of PEMs create python co-routines that yield control at various points during the execution of 
the simulation model. SimPy offers a number of classes that can be used to model real world process 
and entities, these include: 
 
Resources – which are requested and released, 
 
Stores – which hold items including other SimPy objects, and are generally used to model buffers, 
 
Levels – a container for a value which can be added to or subtracted from, 
 
Monitors – a container for values, used to monitor or trace variables in the model. 
 
Besides these basic building blocks, there are a number of commands that allow priority requests 
of resources including pre-emption and interruption of PEMs by other PEMs. One of the strengths of 
SimPy is its ability to use the extensive and plentiful libraries of software written for Python, that 
include animation (e.g., PyGame and Pyglet), database interaction (all major database architectures 
are catered for) and advanced mathematical libraries (e.g., SciPy, NumPy and SymPy). Access to these  
libraries means that SimPy models can be integrated into larger experiments and projects quite easily. 
All of the aforementioned packages are also open source, which increases the usability of SimPy. 
There are also a number of open-source Integrated Development Environments (IDE) for Python such 
as IDLE and PyDev for Eclipse, which allow debugging of models in SimPy. For deployment of 
models or applications, Python programs can be compiled or ‘frozen’ as executables on most 
operating system platforms without the need for the end-user to install Python or any other software. 
Currently, SimPy is being actively developed, version 2.3 is the latest version, with version 3.0 in 
the making. Users communicate via a SimPy forum and some universities courses have opted to teach 
DES via SimPy (e.g., http://heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/~matloff/156/PLN/).  
 
3.2 
JavaSim and C++Sim 
C++Sim was originally devised based on Simula in 1990 and then later ported to Java as JavaSim 
(http://javasim.codehaus.org/) in 1996 (Little and McCue, 1993). Originally it was made freely 
available under its own licensing by Newcastle University and was one of the first open source 
offerings. At the request of the authors of the library, it has been released publicly under LGPL 
licensing. It is a process-based DES language, and the authors of the simulator claim that it is easy to 
learn and use, follows the programming paradigm promoted by Java, is flexible and extensive, as well 
as being efficient. The JavaSim package also includes some libraries for generating random streams 
from distributions including the uniform, exponential, erlang, hyperexponential and normal 
distributions. 
Similar to the previous example, the following example of JavaSim code uses a defined class 
called Source from the JavaSim class Process to create an item and place it in a buffer or queue 
every 2 hours. 
 
 
class Source : public Process 
 
{ 
 
public: 
     
Source () {}; 
     
~Source () {}; 
     
void Body (); 
 
}; 
 
void Source::Body () 
 
{ 
    for (;;) 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
121 
 
     
{ 
        
Item* c = new Item(); 
         queue.insert(c); 
         Hold(2.0); 
     
} 
 
}     
 
Whilst being a very mature simulation library, there appears to be very little activity around the 
package and little comment on its future development. 
3.3 
Sim.JS 
SIM.JS (http://simjs.com/index.html) licensed under the LGPL licensing is a general-purpose discrete 
event simulation library written entirely in JavaScript that uses the event-based design paradigm, in 
which changes to the system are notified via the JavaScript callback() function. The reason for using 
event-based as opposed to process-based (as in SimPy and JavaSim) is that it is less resource 
intensive, (an important attribute if using client side browsers), given that each entity does not need to 
spawn its own thread. Also, at the time of the initial writing of the library, not all browsers supported 
process-based design.  
The modelling structure consist of entities that compete for resources such as Facilities, Buffers or 
Stores. Entities communicate via Events or Messages. Recording and monitoring structures are also 
provided to trace statistics generated during the model execution. The authors also created a library 
for random number generation for a few of the more common distributions, as they felt that the 
standard JavaScript equivalent library was not suited towards discrete event simulation. The following 
brief example code shows a source that creates entities, places them in a buffer and then waits for 2 
hours before repeating the process again. 
 
var Source = { 
 
start: function () { 
    this.putBuffer(buff,1); // adds 1 item to the buffer 
    this.setTimer(2.0).done(this.start); //recall after 2 hours 
    }, 
}; 
 
It is the aim of the authors of the simulator to bring DES to the web and to encourage simulation 
models to utilise the client-side scripting capability of modern browsers. Their online simulator 
example (http://simjs.com/queuing/index.html, accessed on 8 November 2011) offers a number of 
basic objects which include queues, traffic sources, traffic sinks and traffic splitters that can be 
dragged and dropped into a modelling canvass and connected to create a network. This allows the user 
to construct simple DES models within the browser and experiment with different configurations in a 
user-friendly GUI. 
Of the three open source DES simulators investigated, there are a number of advantages and 
disadvantages, when comparing them against their commercial equivalents. Most notable is that they 
are all written in one of a number of popular high level programming languages (e.g. Python, Java or 
JavaScript). This means that integrating models with current manufacturing information systems is 
more viable and less restricted. Commercial packages tend to operate in a single compiled executable 
that has limited integrating abilities. Many allow interfacing with the code via Visual Basic COM 
links with specific API’s, whereas the open-source programs available, can be directly included in the 
code of external information systems and architectures. 
Basing the software language on a popular high level language allows users proficient in that 
language to migrate easier to the open source simulator, whereas many commercial packages use a 
custom language which is unique to their software and users must familiarise themselves with the 
syntax. For example, ExtendSim uses ModL, PlantSim uses Visual Logic which is based on Visual 
Basic and Simul8 uses SimTalk which is based on C++. 
This point is emphasised if users are attempting to build more than just a basic model. Very few 
commercial packages are completely flexible and typically some coding is required. Banks and 
Gibson (1997) argue on the claim of commercial software vendors that models can be built without 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
122 
 
any programming. They state that this is only possible with very application-specific simulators which 
are not applicable to problems outside of that domain. Therefore, if programming is a inescapable 
requirement of the simulation practitioner, it may be more beneficial for them to adopt an open source 
code based simulator in the first place. 
 
4 
CASE STUDY I: PREDICTIVE CAPACITY PLANNING TOOL 
In order to investigate the appropriateness and ability of open source DES software to model a 
complex real system, some research was carried out on behalf of the Irish Centre for Manufacturing 
Research (www.icmr.ie). The aim of the research group is to investigate the maintainability of 
simulation models and their deployment in the manufacturing sector. Through consultations with 
partner companies, which consist of a number of multinational manufacturing facilities in Ireland, the 
research group found that the companies experience with simulation models was quite varied and that 
often models had a very short lifecycle beyond their initial scope and goal. The research group found 
that these limitations were due to a multitude of reasons, the most common being that the owners of 
the models either moved on to newer projects or couldn’t  find the time to maintain the model. 
Furthermore, limitations of licensing, whereby the companies only purchased one or two licences due 
to the investment cost, was thought to be a significant detractor from the successful penetration of 
simulation in the companies. 
A pilot study at one of the companies involved creating a predictive capacity planning tool for a 
product line, which would allow engineers to determine future resource requirements and allocate 
personnel and resources. The model was driven by a production schedule consisting of future orders 
and contracts undertaken by the company. The company had previously engaged in a simulation 
modelling project which was undertaken in conjunction with a local university. Once the owner of the 
model, a student from the university graduated, the model and its use, quickly became redundant. 
Furthermore, the software license for the commercial package, which was purchased for the project, 
was locked down to a single laptop, and had not been used after the initial project. Whilst this serves 
as anecdotal evidence of some of the difficulties associated with deployment of simulation models, it 
is not a isolated incident, Hollocks (2006) discussed that he had found identical phenomena. 
SimPy was used to model the line and was embedded in a Python application as a standalone 
executable that took, as its inputs, a spreadsheet containing the planned production schedule for the 
forthcoming 10 months, as well as, a snapshot of the current WIP profile in the line. The output 
displayed various performance indicators of each station on the line, including cycle time, queue sizes 
and utilisation, an example of which is given in Figure 1. The user configurable variables included the 
number of resources and personnel allocated to each station on the line, as well as various scheduling 
strategies and setup minimization techniques at the machines. This allowed management to 
experiment with various configurations on the line and smooth planned production, whilst 
determining the likely sources of future bottlenecks. 
In conjunction with this SimPy version, a similar model was built using ExtendSim to validate 
both models against each other, and also investigate how the users in the company responded to the 
two models. In terms of interaction with the spreadsheet information, both packages performed quite 
well. ExtendSim imported the information in a timely fashion and the SimPy model used a third party 
Python library called xlrd, which accessed the spreadsheet information. One of the biggest difficulties 
in the project involved modelling the complex shift patterns of staffing. In ExtendSim, this was 
accomplished with relative ease - Shift blocks in the ExtendSim models took care of preventing 
operation during offline times, whereas, in the SimPy version it was more complicated to interrupt a 
worker from performing a task and have them return to the same task where they left off. 
Initially, the model users were more accepting of the ExtendSim version and impressed with the 
animation, as they could see the items moving through the line. However, once the novelty of this 
wore off, the model results became the focal point, and users would often run the simulation with the 
animation screen minimised. It was also found that the lead time required to build the SimPy model 
was a lot longer than the ExtendSim model, primarily as it acted as a black box and users were not 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
123 
 
familiar enough with the code to make changes, and hence a lot more error handling was required 
before the final deployed version could be rolled out. 
 
Figure 2 Predicted inventory levels at each station on the manufacturing line using open source 
SimPy modelling package. 
 
The biggest advantage of the SimPy model was that the standalone executable could be emailed 
and deployed to any or all of the end users without the need to install any software or deal with 
operating system issues. In this way, it was possible to locate the program on a central server and 
invite interested parties to download and experiment with their own configurations. It was found that 
this method of deployment generated a lot of user discussion and debate about the best possible setup 
for the line, and subsequently piqued the interest of many employees in DES modelling. At the 
request of the company, the ICMR agreed to offer a training module which had previously been 
successfully delivered to other companies. 
The initial training course was offered using ExtendSim as it was felt that participants with no 
background in programming or simulation might find it more conducive to their learning. At the 
initial stages of the course when ExtendSim was first introduced, the participants were impressed at 
being able to build simple models quickly and with very little effort. Towards the later stages of the 
course SimPy was briefly introduced, and the participants appeared impressed with its simplicity and 
conciseness. It was also felt by the module teachers, that SimPy forced the participants to think more 
about their system in a ‘discrete event’ way rather than building a ‘map’ of the real system which is 
often the learning paradigm of commercial packages. 
5 
CASE STUDY II: SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING MODEL 
A flexible and reusable model of a semiconductor manufacturing system was built using both 
ExtendSim and SimPy to compare and examine the benefits of each software package. Both models 
used the publicly available Semiconductor Wafer Data Format Specification as test data. A full design 
of experiments for the simulations was programmed in Visual Basic, which controlled ExtendSim as a 
background process. Similarly, the same design of experiments algorithm was implemented in Python 
which controlled the SimPy model. Both models outputted an operational characteristic for the 
semiconductor fab and allowed engineers to compare a profile of the utilisation/cycle time 
relationship. As can be seen from Figure 2, the results for both models were identical for the same 
dataset, with a difference only in the high utilisation zones where both models were deemed to be 
overloaded and unable to attain steady state. 
 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
124 
 
 
Figure 3 SimPy and ExtendSim operational characteristic curves for semiconductor fab using 
Sematech minifab dataset. 
 
Overall though, the Python/SimPy application was easier to implement and maintain as it did not 
require any cross communication between different software platforms, whereas communication 
between the Visual Basic GUI and ExtendSim was a little more cumbersome. ExtendSim provides 
COM links which were used to control the simulations from ExtendSim. Scripts were created to feed 
the data into ExtendSim which were found to be quite slow and error prone. In subsequent iterations 
of the application, it was found to be far more efficient to send a message to ExtendSim to import the 
data directly into ExtendSim internal database. 
Another issue regarding the ExtendSim application, was implementation of the modelling strategy 
required to auto-generate the simulation models. The modelling strategy involved conceptualising the 
many aspects of the system such as tools, operators, downtimes and batches as items, which circulated 
the system and  paired with each other to define an activity. For example, if a tool item, repair item 
and operator item were paired and delayed for a period of time, it signified that a repair of the tool 
was being performed by the operator. This type of strategy required using ExtendSim in a less than 
usual manner. ExtendSim is representative of most modern ‘drag and drop’ simulation software 
packages in that it is job-driven. As described by Fowler and Rose (2004), job-driven refers to 
“manufacturing jobs as active system entities while system resources, such as machines, are passive. 
The simulation model is created by describing how jobs move through their processing steps, seizing 
available resources whenever they are needed”. However, for a flexible modelling system that can 
generate a flexible model based on the data specification, it is not possible to use this modelling 
strategy. Therefore, implementing the model in ExtendSim required the programming of some custom 
modular blocks to facilitate this flexibility. This is not an uncommon experience when using a 
simulation software package, and Banks (1999) explains this as the ‘90% rule’ whereby you find that 
the software has sufficient rudimentary capability to achieve 90% of the original objective, and an 
extra 2-5% being achieved by using the software’s functions in unusual or unorthodox ways.  
Overall though, the SimPy model was much faster (of an order of 5:1) as it did not have any 
animation cycles, and did not require execution of the superfluous code in ExtendSim which makes it 
feature-full general purpose simulator. However, any statistics of interest needed to be manually 
generated in SimPy, whereas in ExtendSim, this information is collected by default. More care and 
attention in the SimPy version was required to model the events that could happen to an entity during 
its lifecycle. For example if a lot entity was occupying a tool entity, it was difficult to interrupt this, 
say, if the tool went down or a shift came to an end. ExtendSim includes canned blocks of code that 
can account for this, however, one might argue that there is value in having to understand the complex 
interactions and activities of the real system entities when creating a simulation model. 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
125 
 
6 
CONCLUSIONS 
It is widely considered that DES has not achieved the level of uptake amongst manufacturing 
companies that the reported benefits of its use would warrant. Licensing cost is one purported barrier 
to simulation software use. This paper has identified three examples of DES software that are freely 
available under open source licences and therefore overcome the accessibility issue of purchasing 
cost.  
 
Two case study based comparisons between one of the open source options (SimPy) and a 
proprietary DES package (ExtendSim) have been described. It was found that there were strengths 
and weaknesses to both options. From a technical perspective both software packages were able to 
adequately represent the systems under analysis, access the required external data and provide the 
necessary experimental capability. In terms of usability there are two perspectives: the first is that of 
the modeller and the second is that of the model user. For the modeller in the case examples, the lack 
of animated GUI in SimPy (as is the case in all other open source DES currently available) was not a 
significant drawback in the modelling building phase but the animation provided by ExtendSim was 
beneficial when initially introducing end users to the models. The trade-off for this visualisation was a 
negative impact on model execution times, which gave the open source alternative a substantial 
advantage after the model was accepted and the user became only interested in model results.  A 
further advantage of the open source option was that model use could spread quickly through the 
organisation to new users without licensing restrictions. However, although the proprietary software 
did not spread as quickly, it was found that the GUI allowed new users to more quickly understand the 
model and discover the parameters they wished to edit. 
 
Licensing cost, while a significant barrier, is not the only barrier to simulation uptake and the 
availability of freely available open source DES software (at least as it currently exists) will not 
entirely overcome the accessibility issues of simulation software. With its steeper learning curve, it 
might even be more difficult to convince the manufacturing industry of the benefits of open source 
simulation software. It is believed that a more holistic approach to removing the barriers to entry, 
which addresses simulation awareness/understanding, model build effort/time, and integration with 
existing systems/practices, is required and perhaps open source DES software can play a role in this 
effort. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
This research is undertaken as part of the Irish Centre for Manufacturing Research (www.icmr.ie). 
The project is funded by the Irish Government and the European Union under the Irish National 
Development Plan 2007-2013 via the Enterprise Ireland and IDA Ireland (Industrial Development 
Agency) Technology Centre Initiative. 
REFERENCES 
Banks J (1999). What does industry need from simulation vendors in Y2K and after? A panel 
discussion. Proceedings of the 1999 Winter Simulation Conference. 
Fowler J W and Rose O (2004). Grand Challenges in Modeling and Simulation of Complex 
Manufacturing Systems. Simulation  80(9): 469-476. 
Goode S (2005). Something for nothing: management rejection of open source software in Australia’s 
top firms. Information and Management, 42(1): 669-681. 
Harrell C, Winsor S and Teichert G (2010). Increasing Throughput in an Automated Packaging Line 
with Irreducible Complexity. In: Johansson B, Montoya-Torres S J J, Hugan J, and Yücesan E 
(eds). Proceedings of 2010 Winter Simulation Conference, Baltimore, MD IEEE, 1567-1573. 
Hollocks B W (2001). Discrete-event simulation: an inquiry into user practice. Simulation Practice 
and Theory, 8(6-7): 451-471. 
Hollocks B W (2006). Forty Years of Discrete-Event Simulation: A Personal Reflection. The Journal 
of the Operational Research Society, 57(12): 1383-1399. 
Byrne, Liston, Geraghty, and Young 
 
126 
 
Jahangirian M, Eldabi T, Naseer A, Stergioulas L K and Young T (2010). Simulation in 
manufacturing and business: A review. European Journal of Operational Research, 203(1): 1-13. 
Little M C and McCue D L (1993). Construction and Use of a Simulation Package in C++. 
Department of Computing Science, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, doi: 10.1.1.53.8198 
Ven K, Verelst J and Mannaert H (2008). Should you adopt open source software? IEE Software. 
 
AUTHOR BIOGRAPHIES 
NEILL BYRNE received a BE in Mechanical Engineering from University College Dublin in 2002 
and received an MSc in Computer Aided Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering from Dublin 
City University in 2006.  He is currently reading for a PhD at the same University and engaged as a 
researcher for the Irish Centre for Manufacturing Research (www.icmr.ie). His research interests 
include maintainable discrete event simulation modelling, with a focus on its applications in the 
manufacturing sector. 
 
PAUL LISTON is a Research Fellow at the Enterprise Process Research Centre, in Dublin City 
University. He holds a BEng in Industrial Engineering, an MTech in Computer Integrated 
Manufacturing, and a PhD from the Manufacturing and Operations Engineering department in the 
University of Limerick. His research interests include supply chain analysis, non-hierarchical 
networks, service modelling and the development of simulation-based decision-support systems. Paul 
is currently working with the Irish Centre for Manufacturing Research (www.icmr.ie) on an industry-
led collaborative research initiative. 
 
JOHN GERAGHTY is a Lecturer in the School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering at 
Dublin City University, Ireland. He is a founding member of the Enterprise Process Research Centre 
at DCU. His teaching interests include operations research, manufacturing systems simulation, quality 
management and project management. His research interests include modelling and analysis of semi-
conductor fabrication systems, lean manufacturing, supply-chain management and operations 
excellence. 
 
PAUL YOUNG is the director of the Enterprise Process Research Centre at Dublin City University, 
Ireland. His teaching interests include operations research, mechanics of machines and mechanical 
systems simulation. His research interests range from simulation of mechanical systems to simulation 
and analysis of manufacturing systems. 
